3670	Yes	 On Thursday, January 24 at 4:15 pm, NITLE presents this session at the 2013 Annual Meeting of the Association of American Colleges and Universities:Undergraduates as Public Digital ScholarsHow do we prepare students to be lifelong learners who are adaptive, networked and engaged citizens? By becoming public digital scholars, undergraduates learn digital methods of analysis, [...]
3671	Yes	 “So we weep for a person who lived at great cost / Yet we barely knew his powers till we sensed that we had lost” “Mark Rothko” by Dar Williams “This is the opposite of a suicide note / I plant my roots too deep in this earth to move” “ This is the opposite of a suicide note ” by Guante Aaron is gone I woke up Saturday morning to the voice of my partner telling me, gently, “Aaron Swartz killed himself.” I had a few minutes of confusion before I managed to get to my phone, open twitter, and see that it was true. I started crying. I kept picturing him the last time I’d seen him, years ago at an Open Library hack fest day, intent over his laptop, in a t-shirt that read “Design will save the world.” I somehow got dressed and out the door to CalTrain, even managing to arrive early for the day’s RailsBridge hack day. I tried to focus on my work. That’s usually what I do when I don’t want to feel a painful emotion. Feeling my Feelings I have been deeply moved recently by the courageous acts of two women who are among my heroes. The first is Maria Bamford. If you haven’t seen her new comedy special, please do yourself a favor and go watch it. ( http://www.mariabamford.com/ ) Not only is this the funniest comedy special ever conceived, it is honest and vulnerable about mental illness and suicidal feelings in a way that feels unprecedented to me. I wonder if Maria’s therapists tell her what mine always tell me, that I have to be open and honest about who I am if I ever want to get better. The second inspiration came from this post by Valerie Aurora, co-founder of the Ada Initiative, in which she discusses suicide the way a good hacker should, in terms of how we actually fix the problem. One of the ways she enumerates is for all of us to be more open and honest about our own experiences. I am deeply concerned about addressing suicidal behavior and mental health issues among hackers, activists, and free culture advocates, because those are the people I love. And they (some of them at least) love me. And they are not going to shun me for being open and honest about who I am. I have been struggling with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) for a very long time. It has been there since before my brain was fully formed. I was raped when I was twelve, and because of misogynistic beliefs I had been raised with, I responded to losing my virginity by attempting suicide. Ever since then, suicidal thoughts have dogged me. I am no longer afraid that I will kill myself. I have spent the past few years, including a very intensive few months last year when I was recovering from a concussion and the ensuing depression, practicing cognitive behavioral therapy with an excellent therapist. I still have panic attacks, sometimes for no obvious reason. I still get anxiety induced nausea, and I’ve kept my hair trigger startle reflex. But the blinding, crippling migraines have mostly stopped, and that is a blessed relief. The endometriosis that gave me unbearable pain for much of my life is mostly dormant these days. Life without chronic pain is good, and life with meditation, exercise, and CBT is amazing. I can hardly believe that I am the same person. In many ways, I’m not. Central America I don’t often talk about my time in Central America, at least not in any detail. On my resume, that time is written out as a list of skills and technical tricks I picked up doing IT support for human rights agencies. I don’t often go into what life was like in post-NAFTA-ravaged war-torn Mexico, in places where people attempt to live everyday life amid a state of “low intensity warfare.” It was a place where, while we weren’t being bombed (which I guess is what makes it “low intensity”), anyone who was putting up a fight, even via the legal system, against having Mayan ancestral lands stolen by American corporations might end up dead. I had no idea what we were up against before I accepted this job. I was used to political organizing on American college campuses, and to impassioned conversations about the ideals of the free software movement. In my political work, we protested, we even got arrested, we even occupied buildings, but none of us ever seriously feared being harmed, or at least I didn’t. I was twenty-three, I believed passionately in the causes I fought for, and I wanted to find a contribution to make that would actually matter. I had been earning a living as an IT professional since the age of 19, and that work had put me through college and had done well for me financially. I had just started earning my first significant money as a software engineer, and I was confident, idealistic, and perhaps naive enough to believe that providing better Internet access for human rights agencies was my little corner of saving the world. My slow realization that real people were dying around me, that mistakes on my part could kill, was not something I had been prepared for emotionally by my years providing IT support to bookstores and universities. I was deeply religious at the time, and my work was an attempt to serve God. My heroes were the men and women who had given everything to God in order to make peace in the world, like Sister Dianna Ortiz , and Juan Gerardi . When I felt that I had failed at my task, when I realized that I had probably been a security liability to the very people I had cared so passionately about protecting, I fell into despair and I tried to end my life. I took as many sleeping pills as I could swallow and washed them down with lots of wine. Miraculously, and I give thanks for this as often as possible, I woke up the next day. And then, to everyone’s shock, I decided to move to Edmonton, Alberta to go to library school, and my life shot off in a totally different direction. To paraphrase Augusten Burroughs, sometimes you have to kill your life so you don’t kill yourself. This is the opposite of a suicide note. I got into library software because it seemed so safe to me. “No one’s life will ever depend on my actions again,” I remember thinking with relief. And yet I feel now the way I felt then, powerless to save my heroes. The people I care about, the people in this movement that was my salvation, are still dying around me. At a wake for Aaron at No Starch Press in San Francisco this week, I sat around a table with some hackerspace friends and we talked about mental health issues in the geek / hacker community. This was their third friend lost to suicide in the past year. I got to sit in on part of a much larger conversation about how to better provide emotional support and mental health service access to our community. I look forward to continuing that conversation at Aaron’s memorial service at the Internet Archive in San Francisco this week . My first contribution to the effort is this blog post, an attempt to be open and honest about who I am. This is the opposite of a suicide note. This is a love letter to all the hackers and activists and artists, to all the people who do what’s right instead of what’s safe. I link my arms with yours and together we cannot be moved from this earth. 
3672	Yes	 Tweet Ping [tweetping.net], developed by Franck Ernewein seems like an excellent wallpaper backdrop for your secret data visualization dungeon. Next to the obvious tweet messages flashing by on a world density map, various statistical measures (e.g. the number of messages, words and characters) are displayed in a dashboard interface at the bottom. All Twitter data seems to be aggregated by the world continent it originates from, which is also summarized by a single pie chart. Someone knows what the shorts lines emanating from the dots on the world map mean? And the constantly refreshing bar charts? 
3673	Yes	"Snowblind" by Braxton Soderman and Roxanne Carter : This collaborative poem was written for the CAVE at Brown University and is a relatively simple yet compelling argument for this kind of writing, initiated by Robert Coover in 2002. Other CAVE works reviewed in this blog have published video documentation of a performance, which is a far cry from the real deal, but considering it takes time and money to travel to Brown University to use their CAVE (and a prohibitive amount of money to build one), this will do. Soderman and Carter have gone a step further by providing access to the Cave Text Editor and the source files for readers to explore the work and run a preview of it. A full screen preview allows readers to enter a VRML type of space in which texts are arranged on the inside walls, ceiling and floor of a cube. The reader has some limited navigation capability and can click on texts to do the graphical equivalent of pulling them from the background layer, which is mostly obscured by the a “snowstorm of white letters. The immersive experience is enhanced by a recording of Carter reading a poem, positioning us in the point of view of the poem’s speaker. It is a rare experience to be surrounded by language: lines of verse in space and time, with white symbols cascading about as you take it all in. We need more CAVEs. But in the meantime we have the CAVE Text Editor. Can’t we make it Web deliverable? 
3674	Yes	 From Twitter I found Argument Champion which is a neat game where you create arguments by connecting words through a network of associations. It strikes me as something we could do with collocates as we have a tool in Voyant called Links that will show you words that collocate. 
3675	Yes	One minor weakness of VuFind 1.x is that it doesn’t always provide good feedback for user actions.  One of the advantages to switching to a standard framework is that we can leverage an existing “flash message” mechanism to display messages to users in a consistent way.  Zend Framework 2 includes a simple FlashMessenger helper, but it took a bit of learning to use it as effectively as possible.  I hope that a discussion of my solution to this problem will helpfully demonstrate some aspects of the framework and VuFind 2.x’s architecture. The Problem In Zend Framework, flash messages are stored in an object by the controller.  For example: $this-gt;flashMessenger()-gt;setNamespace(#39;info#39;) -gt;addMessage(#39;Email sent successfully.#39;); or $this-gt;flashMessenger()-gt;setNamespace(#39;error#39;) -gt;addMessage(#39;Operation failed.#39;);   The view is then responsible for pulling information out of the object and formatting it for display. I wanted VuFind to display messages in a consistent way, so it seemed to make the most sense to use a View Helper to render flash messages.  This helper could take care of pulling messages from the namespaces in the object, applying translation, and building lt;divgt; tags with appropriate classes. This way, all I would have to do is add this code to a template: lt;?=$this-gt;flashMessages()?gt;   and my flash messages would display. There’s just one hard part: getting the object containing the messages from the controller to the view with a minimum of fuss. Solution #1: Brute Force My first solution was not hard to come up with, but I was never happy with it. Controllers in Zend Framework 2 pass values to their corresponding views by returning a value (often a \Zend\View\Model\ViewModel object).  If we want to ensure that all of these objects contain a particular value, we can establish a convention where VuFind’s controllers never construct a ViewModel directly; instead, they always call a $this-gt;createViewModel() method defined in an abstract base class.  This helper method is responsible for constructing a ViewModel and then attaching the flash messenger object to it.  Once the ViewModel has a flash messenger attached, the View Helper responsible for rendering the messages can simply pull the messenger from a known named property in the model. Advantage: It works. Disadvantage: It’s ugly.  It relies on a particular arbitrary value being in a particular arbitrary place.  It takes away some of the flexibility of the framework by forcing the user to always return ViewModels, and to construct them in a particular way.  It makes the user jump through a hoop (calling createViewModel to create a view model) and punishes them in an unintuitive way if they don’t comply (flash messages stop appearing). Solution #2: Working with the Framework Fortunately, there is a better way. One of the nice features of ZF2 is its service manager system (described in more detail in this blog post ).  Service managers are responsible for constructing and storing instances of important objects used by the application.  Ugly application-specific details can be pushed into service manager configuration so that the actual components of the application can be simpler and more reusable. The flash messenger controller helper and our custom view helper are both constructed by service managers.  This means that, through proper service manager configuration, we can ensure that the flash messages view helper always has access to the flash messenger controller helper, with no need for the intervention of a nasty createViewModel() method . This is achieved with the help of a factory in our view helper service manager configuration: #39;flashmessages#39; =gt; function ($sm) { $messenger = $sm-gt;getServiceLocator() -gt;get(#39;ControllerPluginManager#39;) -gt;get(#39;FlashMessenger#39;); return new \VuFind\View\Helper\Root\Flashmessages( $messenger );},   Here’s how it works: service manager factories are passed an instance of the service manager that is doing the object construction ($sm in the example above — an instance of the service manager devoted to view helpers). $sm-gt;getServiceLocator() retrieves the service manager that constructed $sm — the top-level service manager that manages the whole VuFind application. From here, we can call -gt;get(‘ControllerPluginManager’) to obtain the service manager for controller plugins. We can then call -gt;get(‘FlashMessenger’) on the controller plugin service manager to get hold of the flash messenger. This object ($messenger) is then passed to the constructor of the new \VuFind\View\Helper\Root\Flashmessages helper. The object now has access to the flash messenger as soon as it is constructed. None of the other code needs to know about the details — it just works like magic. Yes, this is a bit ugly. But the important thing is that the ugliness is now in the configuration of the application — part of the glue that holds everything together. It’s okay for this part of the code to be a bit convoluted and application-specific, because its whole purpose is to make the various parts of the application fit together. The beautiful thing is that those component parts don’t have to know anything about the details of how the glue works — as a whole, the application has become less coupled and more flexible. Compare this to solution #1, where the ugliness was more deeply embedded in the application’s controllers and in the behavior of the view helper itself. The Code If you want to see how VuFind transitioned from Solution #1 to Solution #2, take a look at these diffs . The Bottom Line There’s definitely a learning curve involved with ZF2, but I continue to feel that it is worth the effort.  I hope this example has shed a little light on some of the issues… but if anything is unclear (and I’m sure something is), feel free to ask questions.  I’m always happy to help, especially if it means that more people are potentially able to help with the process of improving the code. 
3676	Yes	 ALA President Maureen Sullivan Today, on the eve of the American Library Association’s Midwinter Meeting in Seattle, Macmillan Publishers announced that it will enter the library e-book lending market (with a pilot program) by March 2013. Read the Macmillan press release for more details. In response to the announcement, ALA President Maureen Sullivan immediately released the following statement: “I am so pleased Macmillan Publishers is beginning to sell e-books to America’s libraries so that we may connect their authors and our readers in the digital age. This is a welcome acknowledgment of our advocacy and the importance of the library market. We have always known that library lending encourages patrons to experiment by sampling new authors, topics and genres. This experimentation stimulates the market for books, with the library serving as a critical de facto discovery, promotion and awareness service for authors and publishers. “Almost exactly one year ago, the ALA began this conversation with Macmillan CEO John Sargent and his leadership team, and regular communications have continued as the company stated it would launch its pilot last September. While today’s announcement is only a first step, we look forward to the release of more details about the pilot and continuing work together to bring even more Macmilllan e-titles to libraries in the future. “I am glad they are willing to try new business models in collaboration with libraries. This is an important development in our evolving relationship with publishers and intermediaries. ALA and our nation’s libraries welcome new partners in creating and supporting a nation of readers. “We will continue our work to develop these relationships and to create new opportunities with publishers, authors and intermediaries to support a healthy reading ecosystem. “Libraries stand with readers, thinkers, writers, dreamers and inventors. Books and knowledge — in all their forms — are essential.” The post Today: Macmillan Readies for Library Ebook Lending Market appeared first on District Dispatch . 
3677	Yes	 “So we weep for a person who lived at great cost / Yet we barely knew his powers till we sensed that we had lost” “Mark Rothko” by Dar Williams “This is the opposite of a suicide note / I plant my roots too deep in this earth to move” “ This is the opposite of a suicide note ” by Guante Aaron is gone I woke up Saturday morning to the voice of my partner telling me, gently, “Aaron Swartz killed himself.” I had a few minutes of confusion before I managed to get to my phone, open twitter, and see that it was true. I started crying. I kept picturing him the last time I’d seen him, years ago at an Open Library hack fest day, intent over his laptop, in a t-shirt that read “Design will save the world.” I somehow got dressed and out the door to CalTrain, even managing to arrive early for the day’s RailsBridge hack day. I tried to focus on my work. That’s usually what I do when I don’t want to feel a painful emotion. Feeling my Feelings I have been deeply moved recently by the courageous acts of two women who are among my heroes. The first is Maria Bamford. If you haven’t seen her new comedy special, please do yourself a favor and go watch it. ( http://www.mariabamford.com/ ) Not only is this the funniest comedy special ever conceived, it is honest and vulnerable about mental illness and suicidal feelings in a way that feels unprecedented to me. I wonder if Maria’s therapists tell her what mine always tell me, that I have to be open and honest about who I am if I ever want to get better. The second inspiration came from this post by Valerie Aurora, co-founder of the Ada Initiative, in which she discusses suicide the way a good hacker should, in terms of how we actually fix the problem. One of the ways she enumerates is for all of us to be more open and honest about our own experiences. I am deeply concerned about addressing suicidal behavior and mental health issues among hackers, activists, and free culture advocates, because those are the people I love. And they (some of them at least) love me. And they are not going to shun me for being open and honest about who I am. I have been struggling with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) for a very long time. It has been there since before my brain was fully formed. I was raped when I was twelve, and because of misogynistic beliefs I had been raised with, I responded to losing my virginity by attempting suicide. Ever since then, suicidal thoughts have dogged me. I am no longer afraid that I will kill myself. I have spent the past few years, including a very intensive few months last year when I was recovering from a concussion and the ensuing depression, practicing cognitive behavioral therapy with an excellent therapist. I still have panic attacks, sometimes for no obvious reason. I still get anxiety induced nausea, and I’ve kept my hair trigger startle reflex. But the blinding, crippling migraines have mostly stopped, and that is a blessed relief. The endometriosis that gave me unbearable pain for much of my life is mostly dormant these days. Life without chronic pain is good, and life with meditation, exercise, and CBT is amazing. I can hardly believe that I am the same person. In many ways, I’m not. Central America I don’t often talk about my time in Central America, at least not in any detail. On my resume, that time is written out as a list of skills and technical tricks I picked up doing IT support for human rights agencies. I don’t often go into what life was like in post-NAFTA-ravaged war-torn Mexico, in places where people attempt to live everyday life amid a state of “low intensity warfare.” It was a place where, while we weren’t being bombed (which I guess is what makes it “low intensity”), anyone who was putting up a fight, even via the legal system, against having Mayan ancestral lands stolen by American corporations might end up dead. I had no idea what we were up against before I accepted this job. I was used to political organizing on American college campuses, and to impassioned conversations about the ideals of the free software movement. In my political work, we protested, we even got arrested, we even occupied buildings, but none of us ever seriously feared being harmed, or at least I didn’t. I was twenty-three, I believed passionately in the causes I fought for, and I wanted to find a contribution to make that would actually matter. I had been earning a living as an IT professional since the age of 19, and that work had put me through college and had done well for me financially. I had just started earning my first significant money as a software engineer, and I was confident, idealistic, and perhaps naive enough to believe that providing better Internet access for human rights agencies was my little corner of saving the world. My slow realization that real people were dying around me, that mistakes on my part could kill, was not something I had been prepared for emotionally by my years providing IT support to bookstores and universities. I was deeply religious at the time, and my work was an attempt to serve God. My heroes were the men and women who had given everything to God in order to make peace in the world, like Sister Dianna Ortiz , and Juan Gerardi . When I felt that I had failed at my task, when I realized that I had probably been a security liability to the very people I had cared so passionately about protecting, I fell into despair and I tried to end my life. I took as many sleeping pills as I could swallow and washed them down with lots of wine. Miraculously, and I give thanks for this as often as possible, I woke up the next day. And then, to everyone’s shock, I decided to move to Edmonton, Alberta to go to library school, and my life shot off in a totally different direction. To paraphrase Augusten Burroughs, sometimes you have to kill your life so you don’t kill yourself. This is the opposite of a suicide note. I got into library software because it seemed so safe to me. “No one’s life will ever depend on my actions again,” I remember thinking with relief. And yet I feel now the way I felt then, powerless to save my heroes. The people I care about, the people in this movement that was my salvation, are still dying around me. At a wake for Aaron at No Starch Press in San Francisco this week, I sat around a table with some hackerspace friends and we talked about mental health issues in the geek / hacker community. This was their third friend lost to suicide in the past year. I got to sit in on part of a much larger conversation about how to better provide emotional support and mental health service access to our community. I look forward to continuing that conversation at Aaron’s memorial service at the Internet Archive in San Francisco this week . My first contribution to the effort is this blog post, an attempt to be open and honest about who I am. This is the opposite of a suicide note. This is a love letter to all the hackers and activists and artists, to all the people who do what’s right instead of what’s safe. I link my arms with yours and together we cannot be moved from this earth. 
3678	Yes	On Monday the Digital Humanities Advisory Board, responsible for steering the research direction of the project and checking that the technical development on the project responds to the needs of scholars, met in Humboldt University Department for Library Sciences and Information Science. Comments were taken on the current draft of the co-authored paper on the scholarly domain which will is being readied for publication. Christian Morbidonni of Net7 updated the group on the progress that was being made with Korbo and Pundit. Demoing fantastic integrations of Pundit with LODLive and notebook functionalities, as well as improvement to the genera user experience. Alois Pilcher of Bergen University took the stage to present the plans for the up-and-coming “Wittgenstein Incubator” in which scholars will use Pundit to annotate Wittgenstein’s Brown Book via Wittgenstein Source in order to gain further user feedback on the technical development of the annotation tool. More to follow very soon on this blog. The Wittgenstein Incubator and Swicky Notes – Alois Pilcher from DM2E The day was rounded off with a brainstorming session on further modelling of the scholarly domain. A detailed look at was taken at the various meanings of modelling as Professor Gradmann honed in on the concept of modelling that stands at the heart of much of the DM2E Advisory Board’s work on this project: Stefan Gradmann – Scholarly Modelling from DM2E 
3679	Yes	This is a follow-up to my earlier post on Topic Models and Spelling Variation: The Case of Early Middle English. There I discussed the challenges of generating topic models of texts with non-standardised spelling where topics did not merely correspond to texts. In any given model, differences in the spelling systems of two texts will cause the generated topics to be prominent in some texts and effectively non-existent in others, whereas other topics will be non-existent in the former and prominent in the latter. Topics are thus essentially orthographic patterns, rather than rhetorical discourses or indicators of subject matter. My initial experiments showed that some linguistic smoothing–admittedly,  a questionable form of textual deformance–can help address this problem, along with increasing the granularity of the model by breaking texts into small chunks. Chunk sizes of about 100o words began to reveal the sorts of patterns I was looking for: cases where individual topics had high prominence in parts of more than one text. But I speculated that chunk sizes needed to be still smaller in order make these patterns more noticeable. A second reason for using smaller chunk sizes is that it becomes much easier to make the leap back from … Read more... 
3680	Yes	Well-known are the biblical praises of wine from the Psalter, “wine that maketh glad the heart of man” (Ps 104:15, ויין ישׂמח לבב אנוש, καὶ οἶνος εὐφραίνει καρδίαν ἀνθρώπου) and from the line in a parable, where a vine says, “Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man?” (Judges 9:13, החדלתי את תירושי המשׂמח אלהים ואנשים, B Μὴ ἀπολείψασα τὸν οἶνόν μου τὸν εὐφραίνοντα θεὸν καὶ ἀνθρώπους, but Α differently, Ἀφεῖσα τὸν οἶνόν μου, τὴν εὐφροσύνην τὴν παρὰ τοῦ θεοῦ τῶν ἀνθρώπων). I was pleased and surprised recently to find a few lines in Arabic (Garšūnī) from a fifteenth-century Psalter (parallel Syriac and Garšūnī) in the collection of Saint Mark’s Monastery in Jerusalem (no. 10, dated 1474/5) that list wine’s effects: five for the body and five for the soul. These lines are written at a ninety degree angle to the rest of the text, but they do seem to be in the hand of the scribe who penned the rest of the book. Here is the text, and a translation is below. Saint Mark’s Monastery, Jerusalem, 10, f. 117r Note that in the second part, three of the five verbs are feminine, but masculine elsewhere. Five characteristics of wine as they pertain to the body: Improves digestion [ al-haḍm ] Allows [ yaḏaru ] urine Improves the skin Makes the breath pleasant Intensifies sex [ al-bāh ] And five [characteristics of wine] as they pertain to the soul: Gladdens the soul Brings hope Pains the heart Improves character Opposes greed P.S. For some remarks on wine and other alcoholic beverages in Syriac literature, see my paper available here . 
3681	Yes	The Digital Classicist London seminar series, which provides a forum for research into the ancient world that employs digital research methods, invites submissions for Summer 2013. We warmly welcome contributions from students as well as established researchers and practitioners. Themes could include digital text, semantics and linguistics, imaging and visualization, linked data, open access, geographic analysis, information science and serious gaming, although this list is by no means exhaustive. While we welcome high-quality application papers discussing individual projects and their immediate context, the series also hopes to accommodate broader theoretical consideration of the use of digital technology in ancient studies. Presentations should have an academic research agenda relevant both to classicists, ancient historians or archaeologists, and to information specialists or digital humanists. The seminars will run on Friday afternoons at 16:30, from June to early August in the Institute of Classical Studies, Senate House, London. There is a budget to assist with travel to London (usually from within the UK, but please enquire if you’re coming from further afield). To submit a paper for consideration for the Digital Classicist London seminars, please email an abstract of 300-500 words to gabriel.bodard@kcl.ac.uk, by midnight UTC on March 22nd, 2013. More information will be found at http://www.digitalclassicist.org/wip/wip2013.html Posted by: Gabriel BODARD (gabriel.bodard@kcl.ac.uk). 
3682	Yes	 Looking to record a short greeting for your webpage or blog? Don#39;t really have the time to learn an audio program? Want a simple way to record your audio, either through phone, typing, microphone, or uploading an audio file? You can through AudioPal. This is a free service that is web based. All you need to do is have a microphone, a phone, or a keyboard available. You can type in a  message and a voice will speak what you typed. It does get some of the words wrong. I recorded my voice with a microphone and it came out great. You can also call a number if you do not have a mic and record your message. You will them receive an email within second with a link to the player and the embed code. You can also share the little audio player on popular social network sites like Facebook. The downside is that you can only record a minute of audio. If you want to check out this free service (and no need to sign up for an account), click on the link below: http://www.audiopal.com/index.html 
3683	Yes	If you are very committed to getting your foreign-language pronunciation correct and have a couple weeks to spare, here are some detailed instructions on how to roll your #39;Rquot;s : http://www.wikihow.com/Roll-Your-%22R%22s 
3684	Yes	A free tool called Translation for Facebook Connect will help webmasters and site owners use the general population's knowledge of language to translate their sites in languages supported by Facebook. This is great because your Facebook page can reach larger audiences and somebody can read your site in their native language. To read more about the tool, click on the link below (an article by Mashable): http://mashable.com/2009/09/29/translations-for-facebook-connect/ 
3685	Yes	 Very Brief Review of Three Language Learning Communities Available On the Web: LiveMocha, Busuu, and Hello-Hello Livemocha, Hello-Hello.com and Busuu.com have free accounts you can sign up for. Each gives you lessons with a vocab review, a writing exercise, an audio exercise, and a chance to have the exercises graded by native speakers (you as a native speaker of a language have the ability to grade others as well) and to chat with native speakers to practice your new found language skills (not available in Hello-Hello.com just yet). Both LiveMocha and Busuu have paid subscriptions where you can have access to more contention and more advanced lessons. Here are some of the differences between the three services: Livemocha : Pros: At free level ,able to download vocab lists from the site More languages are available to you to learn at free level (like Arabic and Hindi) Have more flashcards to review and fill in the black word exercises at free level to help you retain vocab and helps you with writing and audio exercises Chat with native speakers Speaking exercises where you record yourself. Written exercises Graded by the community   Cons: The vocab is not conversational in nature (you say things like I am fat, and I am thin) Busuu.com: Pros: Vocab is conversational in nature. You learn things like hello, how are you. Welcome. Good day. What is your name? To help with comprehension and vocab review, you are quizzed on a conversation a few people are having in that language. It is spoken at the normal pace and with the vocab you learned. Chat with native speakers. Speaking exercises where you record yourself. Written exercises Graded by the community Cons: Free subscription limits you to only a few languages. To download vocab and print it (like  flashcard review), you need the paid service (also get podcasts with paid service) There is not enough vocab review exercises to prep you for the written and audio exercises. I felt that I retained little when I went into the written exercises and audio exercises. Hello-Hello.com :   Pros:   The exercises are very practical and conversation in nature. You can create flash cards for each lesson. You can write notes in the notes section in each lesson. Written exercises. Speaking exercises where you record yourself. Graded by the community (you can also ask questions as you go along in each lesson that can be answered by the community too). There also a dictionary and a translator section built into the design Hello-Hello collaborated with the ACTFL (The American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages) to make this community. Totally free. No upgrade to a paid subscription to access more lessons.   Cons: You do no have a traditional list of vocab like LiveMocha. You absorb the conversation but there’s a translation box under the lesson. This could be hard for beginners. You can not chat with a native speaker (but this function will be available soon) The audio files did not work in Google Chrome (this may be fixed with future updates to the site) You are limited to a few language choices to learn (English, French Portuguese, Spanish) Websites: http://hello-hello.com/ http://www.livemocha.com/ http://www.busuu.com/ 
3686	Yes	 I have been working on a project that requires to have Arabic text in a flash website. The issue is that every time we add Arabic text, some of the letters get flipped when we export the movie (.swf file). Here is a work around that my boss (Ben Johnston) discovered. It uses actionscript and html code. Here are the steps below: 1. Create a text file with all the Arabic text you want to put into the fla file. Use HTML markup to create paragraphs, texts aligns etc. At the beginning of each line, you will write this actionscript code: instance_name=”html text”; For example: about_me_text = “ lt;pgt;lt;b style=’font-size:200%;’gt;About Melt;/bgt;lt;pgt;lt;br /gt; “; about_me_text += “lt;pgt;Author: Melt;brgt;Department of Me Studieslt;brgt;Myself University lt;brgt;lt;/pgt;lt;br gt;”; about_me_text += “lt;pgt;More textlt;brgt;lt;/pgt;lt;br gt;”; Note: When you add an extra line, make sure your actionscript code has a + in it. 2. Go to the layer you want to add the text. Add a text box. 3. Open up the actionscript window for that layer. Paste in your text (with the actionscript and html markup in step 1) 4. Click on the text box. In the text box properties choose Dynamic Text 5. In Dynamic Text, there is a an instance textbox. Type in the instance name in the actionscript code. For this example, that would be: about_me_text 6. Under Paragraph in the text properties, in Behavior choose Multiline . 7. Under Options in the Text Properties, type in the same instance name for the Variable text box. In this example it would be:  about_me_text. (You can copy and paste the text you enter in step 5). 8. Render your movie. Note: You can change the color, font type, and size in the Text Properties menu too. 
3687	Yes	 PBS and NPR have teamed up to launch a new service called Forum Network. According to their site the quot;The Forum Network online library features thousands of lectures by some of the world#39;s foremost scholars, authors, artists, scientists, policy makers and community leaders, available to citizens of the world for free.quot; This is great because not only does this site provide lectures that align their topics with programs such as NOVA and Frontline, it allows the viewer to explore these topics at greater depth. To check out the Forum Network, click on the link below: http://forum-network.org 
3688	Yes	Firstmonday has posted a very interesting article on the inherent pedagogies of course management systems ( instructional by default) and the often overlooked features of CMSs that could encourage more constructivist learning activities. http://firstmonday.org/htbin/cgiwrap/bin/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/2530/2303 
3689	Yes	I recently came across this great video demonstrating how to get started with learning language for free online. The video was produced by FreeLanguage.org and this video is the first in this series. They highlight what sites are good to learn languages for free and other free tools that will help you on your journey. You can watch the first video in this series below (or you can visit their YouTube account page at http://www.youtube.com/user/freelanguageorg     
3690	Yes	I recently came across this YouTube video that animated the actual Bayeux Tapestry. The Bayeux Tapestry depicts the Norman Conquest of England in 1066. It's a very pivotal point in England's history. The Bayeux Tapestry currently resides in France. To learn about the Norman Conquest of England and to see the tapestry animated, watch the embedded YouTube video below:     
3691	Yes	We've blogged about this site before, but it's worth another mention: "smARThistory.org is a free multi-media web-book designed as a dynamic enhancement (or even substitute) for the traditional and static art history textbook. Dr. Beth Harris and Dr. Steven Zucker began smARThistory in 2005 by creating a blog featuring free audio guides in the form of podcasts for use in The Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Soon after, we embedded the audio files in our online survey courses. The response from our students was so positive that we decided to create a multi-media survey of art history web-book. We created audios and videos about works of art found in standard art history survey texts, organized the files stylistically and chronologically, and added text and still images." 
3692	Yes	Here is a very good and varied list of readings from Doug Holton, an assistant professor at Utah State University, on research in college teaching. http://edtechdev.wordpress.com/2009/08/31/50-examples-of-the-need-to-improve-college-teaching/ 
3693	Yes	The peacecorps.gov site contains a good collection of language learning resources. http://www.peacecorps.gov/wws/multimedia/language/ 
3694	Yes	 Profhacker has a new post describing Wordles as a gateway drug to textual analysis and provides an interesting potential use for them.  In case you are not familiar with Wordles, the Wordle service allows you to input a text, run a word-frequency analysis of the text, and generates a 'word cloud' of the text. Within the 'word cloud', words that appear more often in the text appear larger and words that appear less often appear smaller. Although a visualization of word frequencies in a text may not lead to the discovery of any really deep meaning with the text, it can certainly be a conversation starter. This is where Wordle can be useful in teaching, since it's in the conversation where the real textual analysis takes place. http://www.profhacker.com/2009/10/21/wordles-or-the-gateway-drug-to-textual-analysis/ 
3695	Yes	PhraseBASE is a service where you can learn a foreign language and also practice it with native speakers of that language. Some of the features are free on the site, like learning phrases or using the E-Phrasebook Flash cards online. Some of the free services you need to sign up for to access the service (like the online flash cards). To use the full language lessons feature, you need to make a payment online. To check out PhraseBASE, click on the link below: http://www.phrasebase.com/ 
3696	Yes	The blog entry on the Teaching with Classroom Response Systems blog titled quot;Five Types of Mobile Learningquot; discusses how a mobile phone could be used in the classroom five different ways. One way is to use the mobile phones like quot;clickerquot; devices, a device that can respond and enter an answer to a poll asked by the professor to the students. Other ways discussed on how to use a mobile phone in the classroom are that it can be a way students can connect with each other or a way a professor can deliver material to students (via a podcast, text notes or online video lectures). If you would like to read more about ways you can use mobile learning in the classroom, click on the link below: http://derekbruff.com/teachingwithcrs/?p=355 
3697	Yes	Through my experimentation with Google Analytics, it has proven to be a rather useful tool for tracking usage patterns for the Catholic Portal. However, it is only effective if one knows where to look for information. To that end, I have compiled a quick guide about where to find the answers to all sorts of questions about website usage. While I use the Catholic Portal for these examples, the instructions here should be applicable for any site set up to use Google Analytics. Note: Images in this article can be clicked on to get a full-size image Overview of where to find user information: Peak periods of use and hits per day/month/year: This can be found in the Visitors Overview screen, under the Audience section. On this screen, there is a line graph of unique visits for a given time period (by default, it shows visits per day for a one month period). The time unit for the x-axis (hour, day, week, or month) can be adjusted with the buttons in the top-right corner immediately above the graph, and the total amount of time shown in the graph can be adjusted using the date settings drop-down menu above the time unit buttons. Hits recorded by Google Analytics do not include bots or crawlers, as they are unlikely to trigger the JavaScript code that Google Analytics uses to record usage statistics (alternatively, Google may just automatically exclude counting bots through its own methods). Visitors Overview screen To find the peak periods of use for the Catholic Portal from August 1 to October 31, the first thing to do is to set the desired period of time by clicking the calendar settings in the top-right corner and selecting the desired date range. Date range selection After selecting the desired date range, the graph can be set up to use hours, days, weeks, or months as units. For this example, the default (days) will be used. Highest usage (mid-week) Lowest usage (weekends) Overall, the periods of highest use tended to be during the middle of the week, with peaks tending to occur on Tuesdays or Wednesdays. Usage dropped to its lowest point during the weekends. Search strings entered: There are two sources on Google Analytics for strings entered by users for searches. The first is in the Traffic Sources section overview, which shows keywords that are entered in the search engines (Google, Bing, etc.) which referred those users to the Catholic Portal. The other source is in the Site Search section of the Content section. Instead of giving keywords from external search engines, this gives the keywords entered in a search box on the website itself. However, Site Search tracking must be configured to track a particular search box. In the case of the Catholic Portal, Site Search is set up to track entries in the search box on the Catholic Portal’s main page. Both types of sources for strings entered are shown in the pictures below. The top picture displays the list of top keywords in the Traffic Sources section from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012. The bottom picture, on the other hand, displays the top searches entered using the Catholic Portal’s search feature from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012. Traffic Sources (strings entered on search engines) Site Search (strings entered using a web site’s search features) Use of Web 2.0 features: The use of Web 2.0 features (e-mail, cite, etc.) can be tracked by checking for hits to their corresponding links. For the use of the “cite” option, for example, the pattern for such links is “http://www.catholicresearch.net/Record/[record ID]/Cite”. E-mail, export, and text use the same pattern, with “Cite” replaced by “Email”, “Export”, and “SMS”, respectively. To find the number of hits for, say, email links, first go to Site Content (under the Content section) and then All Pages. In the search box above the list of links, enter “/Email” (without quotes), and a list of hits to the email links will be produced. Be sure to enter the slash, as false positives can be returned without it (in particular, “SMS” without the slash will return results with “Catechisms” in the string. Use of the “Email” feature on the Catholic Portal from Aug. 1 2012 – Oct. 31, 2012 Use of the “Cite” feature on the Catholic Portal from Aug. 1 2012 – Oct. 31, 2012 Use of the “SMS” feature on the Catholic Portal from Aug. 1 2012 – Oct. 31, 2012 Use of the “Export” feature on the Catholic Portal from Aug. 1 2012 – Oct. 31, 2012 For the period between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012, there was very little usage of the Web 2.0 features. Field searches vs. general searches: Finding statistics on the use of field or general searches is dependent on how the searching method for the site is set up. For the Catholic Portal, the type of search is indicated in the URL with “type=[Search Type].” For example, general searches are indicated with “type=AllFields” and field searches can have “tag,” “ISN,” “CallNumber,” “Subject,” “Author,” or “Title” in place of “AllFields.” To find the number of searches for a given type of search, go to Site Content (under the Content section) and then All Pages. In the search box above the list of links, enter “type=[Search Type]” (without quotes, where [Search Type] is the value of whichever search type for which you want to find statistics), and a list of searches performed for that given type will be produced. The ability to do this for the Catholic Portal is only possible because the search result pages have individual URLs due to the way search is set up on the site. For web sites which do not have URLs for each search result page, or which do not indicate the type of search in the URL, tracking such statistics may not be possible without another form of tracking (e.g., server-side scripts). “General” (All fields) search results “Subject” search results “Author” search results “Title” search results “Call Number” search results “ISN” search results “Tag” search results For the period between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012, the use of general and subject searches (2,361 and 2,329 hits respectively) greatly outnumbered the use of author (84 hits), title (286 hits), ISN (6 hits), call number (13 hits), and tag searches (5 hits). Use of the tabs at the top: For the Catholic Portal, these pages are under the About directory (e.g., “http://www.catholicresearch.net/About/Council” is the account login page). To find the number of hits for these pages, first go to Site Content (under the Content section) and then All Pages. In the search box above the list of links, enter “/About/” (without quotes), and a list of hits to the tabs at the top will be produced. For any site which is set up to use Google Analytics, the usage statistics of pages under a particular sub-directory can be found with this search box. Use of the tabs at the top from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 User account usage information: While this cannot be determined directly via Google Analytics, a reasonable guess can be made for account usage based on how often the pages associated with user account management are accessed. For the Catholic Portal, these pages are under the MyResearch directory (e.g., “http://www.catholicresearch.net/MyResearch/Home” is the account login page). To find the number of hits for these pages, first go to Site Content (under the Content section) and then All Pages. In the search box above the list of links, enter “/MyResearch” (without quotes), and a list of hits to the tabs at the top will be produced. Use of pages related to user accounts on the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Based on the low usage of pages under the “MyResearch” directory, it is likely that user account usage on the Catholic Portal was low for the period between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012. Language and Country/territory: The language and location of users and be found in Google Analytics, under Audience / Overview or Audience / Demographics, and is based on host and IP data. For the Catholic Portal, most visitors are from the United States, with English as the most commonly reported language. For the period between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012, Italy comes in second place, and there are a few other countries with significant Catholic populations in the top ten results such as the Philippines, Poland, and Spain. Country of origin for visitors from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Reported language/locale for visitors from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Browser, Operating System, and ISP: The browser, OS, and ISP of the users can be found through different options under the Audience tab. The users’ browser and OS can be found under Browser amp; OS, which is in the Technology subsection of Audience, and the ISP can be found under Network, which is also in the Technology subsection. In the case of the Catholic Portal about 74% of visitors use Windows, 15.8% use Macintosh, and the remainder is divided between Linux and a variety of mobile operating systems (e.g., iOS, Android, Blackberry). As for browsers, the usage is divided more evenly, with Internet Explorer at 34.3%, Firefox at 25.9%, Chrome at 19.1%, and Safari at 16.5%. Operating Systems used by visitors to the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Browsers used by visitors to the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Reported ISPs of visitors to the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Search engine referral/where users come from: The referrer can give an indication of how and possibly why users come to the site. This information can be found in the Overview section of the Traffic Sources tab in the left side bar. In the Overview screen, the sources are broken down into Search Traffic (users who arrived from a search engine such as Google or Yahoo), Direct Traffic (users who arrived from clicking a bookmark or from typing in a URL), and Referral Traffic (users who arrived from clicking a link on a site other than a search engine). The Sources section provides further information on categories, dividing possible sources into All Traffic, Direct, and Referrals. The Search section provides information on results from search engines which brought users to the site. Note: This is not to be confused with the Site Search section (under Content), which provides information on searches performed on the site (e.g., a search box on the main page) rather than search engines. Site Search tracking, additionally, has to be set up to track use of whichever search box for which statistics are desired. Overview of traffic sources for the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Listing of all traffic sources for the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Listing of direct traffic sources for the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Listing of all non-search engine referrers for the Catholic Portal from August 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012 Most visitors seem to reach the Catholic Portal through search engines, and those that do not tend to reach the site through links from Catholic universities (e.g., University of Notre Dame, Georgetown, SHU) or from library-related websites such as vufind.org or cathla.org. User activity: The activity pattern of users can be determined in the Behavior sub-section of the Audience tab. This section contains a number of statistics regarding the duration and frequency of user activity. Among these statistics are: Bounce rate – The bounce rate is the percentage of visitors who come to one page on the website, and then leave to some other website within a short time. This can be viewed within the Overview section under the Audience tab, or alternatively under the Engagement subsection of Behavior (under Audience). This section has two measured dimensions that can be selected: “Visit Duration” and “Page Depth.” The bounce rate cited in the Overview section is equal to percentage of visits with a Page Depth of one. Page depth of visitors to the Catholic Portal between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012 Duration of visits to the Catholic Portal between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012 Frequency and recency — Statistics on frequency (number of times visited by the same visitor) and recency (amount of time between visits by a repeat user) can be viewed under the Frequency amp; Recency subsection of Behavior (under Audience). The graph on this screen can be set up to view the numbers of visitors who visit a particular number of times (frequency) or the number of visitors who waited a certain number of days before a subsequent visit (recency). Number of visits to the Catholic Portal from individual IP addresses between August 1, 2012 and October 31, 2012 Overall, visitors to the Catholic Portal tend not to be repeat visitors, and they do not stay at the site for very long. Error messages: Google Analytics does not seem to record any information about client-side or server-side errors. The only error related information I found was on Analog (a set of server-side scripts for tracking Catholic Portal statistics), which records the frequency that HTTP status codes get returned, which includes errors such as 404 (Not Found), 403 (Forbidden), and 500 (Internal Server Error). Unfortunately, more detailed information (e.g., which particular user requests give errors, whether certain errors correlate with a particular time) would require logs of individual requests, which neither Analog nor Google Analytics provide. One way that Google Analytics could be set up to track errors is if a given site is programmed so that an error causes a redirect to a custom error page (for example, some websites will redirect the user to a customized 404 or 500 error pages when the server encounters an error). If a site is set up in this fashion, the number of hits to the custom error pages could provide some indication of the frequency of various errors. This might not, however, be possible for all types of errors. Dashboards Google Analytics allows setting up widgets on the Dashboard, so that you may have a convenient, customized set of data on one page. To do so, first click on the Home tab on the top of the Google Analytics page. Then, click on Dashboards, which is on the left side. Under the Dashboards link, click + New Dashboards to create a new dashboard with whatever title or style you like. “Starter” will automatically fill the dashboard with a set of widgets. Widgets can be deleted, added, or edited with either the “Blank” or “Starter” option. To edit a widget, click on the gear icon on the top-right corner of any widget. Then, you can customize its presentation style (graph, table, etc.), metric (Visits, Page views, Visit Duration, etc.), and other options. You can save these options with the Save button on the bottom-left. To add a widget, click + Add Widget, which will bring up the same configuration screen as when you edit a widget. To delete a widget, click the gear icon by any widget to bring up the edit screen. Then, click “Delete Widget” on the bottom-right corner of this screen. Example Dashboard for the Catholic Portal Note: Dashboards are unique to whichever user creates them, so only that user may view or edit. However, they can be shared with other Google Analytics users who have an account associated with the same page (in this case, the Catholic Portal) using the Share Dashboard link in the Dashboards screen. This will give a link that can be sent to another user, so that he or she may import a Dashboard with the same set of widgets. The new dashboard would be a copy, so changes that the recipient makes to that dashboard would not appear on the sender’s dashboard, or vice versa. Additionally, you can create a PDF file with the widgets you have created using the Export tab. Conclusions While it is not an all-encompassing solution to all types of usage analysis that you may want to do, Google Analytics provides plenty options in an easy to use fashion such that you can find a lot of useful information about how users are using your site. It is important, however, to keep in mind the limitations of Google Analytics and to be familiar with how your site is set up and organized to be able to make best use of the service. 
3698	Yes	The Guardian has a story by John Burn-Murdoch on how Study: less than 1% of the world’s data is analysed, over 80% is unprotected . This Guardian article reports on a  Digital Universe Study  that reports that the “global data supply reached 2.8 zettabytes (ZB) in 2012″ and that “just 0.5% of this is used for analysis”. The industry study emphasizes that the promise of “Big Data” is in its analysis, First, while the portion of the digital universe holding potential analytic value is growing, only a tiny fraction of territory has been explored. IDC estimates that by 2020, as much as 33% of the digital universe will contain information that might be valuable if analyzed, compared with 25% today. This untapped value could be found in patterns in social media usage, correlations in scientific data from discrete studies, medical information intersected with sociological data, faces in security footage, and so on. However, even with a generous estimate, the amount of information in the digital universe that is “tagged” accounts for only about 3% of the digital universe in 2012, and that which is analyzed is half a percent of the digital universe. Herein is the promise of “Big Data” technology — the extraction of value from the large untapped pools of data in the digital universe. (p. 3) I can’t help wondering if industry studies aren’t trying to stampede us to thinking that there is lots of money to be made in analytics. These studies often seem to come from the entities that benefit from investment into analytics. What if the value of Big Data turns out to be in getting people to buy into analytical tools and services (or be left behind.) Has there been any critical analysis (as opposed to anecdotal evidence) of whether analytics really do warrant the effort? A good article I came across on the need for analytical criticism is Trevor Butterworth’s Goodbye Anecdotes! The Age of Big Data Demands Real Criticsm . He starts with, Every day, we produce 2.5 exabytes of information, the analysis of which will, supposedly, make us healthier, wiser, and above all, wealthier—although it’s all a bit fuzzy as to what, exactly, we’re supposed to do with 2.5 exabytes of data—or how we’re supposed to do whatever it is that we’re supposed to do with it, given that Big Data requires a lot more than a shiny MacBook Pro to run any kind of analysis. Of course the Digital Universe Study is not only about the opportunities for analytics. It also points out: That data security is going to become more and more of a problem That more and more data is coming from emerging markets That we could get a lot more useful analysis done if there was more metadata (tagging), especially at the source. They are calling for more intelligence in the gathering devices – the surveillance cameras, for example. They could add metadata at the point of capture like time, place, and then stuff like whether there are faces. That the promising types of data that could generate value start with surveillance and medical data. Reading about Big Data I also begin to wonder what it is. Fortunately IDC (who are behind the Digital Universe Study have a definition, Last year, Big Data became a big topic across nearly every area of IT. IDC defines Big Data technologies as a new generation of technologies and architectures, designed to economically extract value from very large volumes of a wide variety of data by enabling high-velocity capture, discovery, and/or analysis . There are three main characteristics of Big Data: the data itself, the analytics of the data, and the presentation of the results of the analytics. Then there are the products and services that can be wrapped around one or all of these Big Data elements. (p. 9) Big Data is not really about data at all. It is about technologies and services. It is about the opportunity that comes with “a big topic across nearly every area of IT.” Big Data is more like Big Buzz. Now we know what follows Web 2.0 (and it was never going to be Web 3.0.) For a more academic and interesting perspective on Big Data I recommend (following Butterworth) Martin Hilbert’s “How much information is there in the ‘information society’?” ( Significance , 9:4, 8-12, 2012.) One of the more interesting points he makes is the growing importance of text, Despite the general percep- tion that the digital age is synonymous with the proliferation of media-rich audio and videos, we find that text and still images cap- ture a larger share of the world’s technological memories than they did before4. In the early 1990s, video represented more than 80% of the world’s information stock (mainly stored in analogue VHS cassettes) and audio almost 15% (on audio cassettes and vinyl records). By 2007, the share of video in the world’s storage devices had decreased to 60% and the share of audio to merely 5%, while text increased from less than 1% to a staggering 20% (boosted by the vast amounts of alphanumerical content on internet servers, hard disks and databases.) The multimedia age actually turns out to be an alphanumeric text age, which is good news if you want to make life easy for search engines. (p. 9) One of the points that Hilbert makes that would support the importance of analytics is that our capacity to store data is catching up with the amount of data broadcast and communicated. In other words we are getting closer to being able to be able store most of what is broadcast and communicated. Even more dramatic is the growth in computation. In short available computation is growing faster than storage and storage faster than transmission. With excess comes experimentation and with excess computation and storage, why not experiment with what is communicated. We are, after all, all humanists who are interested primarily ourselves. The opportunity to study ourselves in real time is too tempting to give up. There may be little commercial value in the Big Reflection, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t the Big Temptation. The Delphic oracle told us to Know Thyself and now we can in a new new way. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that the value in Big Data is in our narcissism. The services that will do well are those that feed our Big Desire to know more and more (recently) ourselves both individually and collectively. Privacy will be trumped by the desire for analytic celebrity where you become you own spectacle. This could be good news for the humanities. I’m tempted to announce that this will be the century of the BIG BIG HUMAN. With Big Reflection we will turn on ourselves and consume more and more about ourselves. The humanities could claim that we are the disciplines that reflect on the human and analytics are just another practice for doing so, but to do so we might have to look at what is written in us or start writing in DNA . In 2007, the DNA in the 60 trillion cells of one single human body would have stored more information than all of our technological devices together. (Hilbert, p. 11) 
3699	Yes	  Martin Holmes uploaded a neat animation of a visualization of The TEI Council at Work that shows version editing of the TEI documents. The animation is generated by  gource – software version control visualization . 
3700	Yes	 It is hard to believe that as I write this post that we are ending the second week of classes for the winter term. I have been sorely remiss in posting here since my last post was right before the new year.  Of course the beginning of term, or start-up as we call it in my faculty, is always a flurry of activity and a panoply of challenges.   It is a time of last minute registrations, classroom space being finalized, long conversations with the bookstore about when textbooks will arrive.   It is also time to perform last minute changes to syllabi. If like me you are teaching two new subjects this term, it is also time for lesson prep.  The end of the second week of classes is usually when the hustle and bustle has calmed. You know your students a bit better, you gain the flow in your teaching and prep.   This weekend is what I like to call the “week two exhale.” This little pun is truly what happens for me at the end of week two. I realize I have been holding my breath for about 14 days and I finally breathe again.  It is a time when things fall into place and that all your best laid time management skills in order to maintain a productive and happy semester are put to the test. For me the test this semester will be to make sure to stay dedicated to the time I have blocked off for my monograph typescript edits. I am already very excited about the courses I am teaching this semester and I am looking forward to weeks of collaborative learning and insightful discussion. It is when the larger daily things on your productivity plate are working well that dedicating time to other projects becomes easier.  I made a promise to myself to be a bit more active than sedentary this term and the exercise time is actually productive for it allows me to reflect and have time away to see things in a different light.   It has allowed me for the past week or so to be immersed in thoughts about Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). I am giving my insight on SMEs for a project at the college and I spent time curating resources that I thought would be valuable for informational purposes.   I compiled them in a Evernote notebook here: https://www.evernote.com/pub/anngagne/forsme . It is a very preliminary resource but it reminded me of the importance of curation and managing resources efficiently. If you do not manage these resources efficiently you end up making more work for yourself instead of making things easier. You give yourself less time to exhale. Whenever I lapse in my Evernote clipping (usually I clip things I favorite on Twitter and then tag them appropriately) I swear up and down that I will never do it again. This is all about time management. We all have so much to do as academics, and so much we want to do, sometimes it is the small things like keeping up with blogging or your Evernote notebooks that make all the difference.  And this leads to my final “week two exhale” thought. I really would like to thank @AlisonSeaman who put the bug about PLNs (Personal Learning   Networks) (by @TomWhitby article here ) and   PKMs (Personal Knowledge Management)(see the excellent article by @hjarche here ) in my ear this week.   Much of this blog deals with pedagogy and pedagogical strategies for it truly does relate to my research in the ethics of tactility in Victorian literature (the tactile and ethical both being arguably essential in the pedagogical). When my Twitter alights with ideas I know that I have a really good PLN. The time I took to reflect and compile resources for SMEs was really about PKM. How do I effectively and efficiently manage knowledge? How do I personalize my “sense-making” and not drown in information? These are important questions we must ask ourselves.  In conclusion I would like to invite you to follow my very good friend Sarah Creel’s Twitter @WritingHaywood . She is doing some excellent textual work on Eliza Haywood and she would be a nice addition to your PLNs! I hope you all have a great semester and remember to breathe! 
3701	Yes	 Are you suffering from a deficiency of pictures of medieval cats? Fear not! Following our recent post Lolcats of the Middle Ages , we#39;re pleased to tell you that British Library Publishing has published not one but two books on the subject, available from our online shop. Medieval Cats by Kathleen Walker-Meikle (ISBN 9780712358187) presents a wealth of cat imagery from a variety of sources, and has wide appeal for cat (and animal) followers everywhere. The author completed her PhD at University College London on late-medieval pet keeping. Puss in Books by Catherine Britton (ISBN 9780712358828) is a celebration of feline wit, intelligence and charm, from ancient Egypt to the present day. The examples are taken from literature, folklore and popular culture, and the book is illustrated in colour throughout. Follow us on Twitter: @blmedieval 
3702	Yes	Libraries often hold and circulate controversial materials, even  materials that one could argue are despicable or dangerous. Here are some examples from worldcat, a database of combined holdings of thousands of US and international libraries. 3277 items, across libraries, with authorship attributed to Adolf Hiter The ‘Unabomber’s Manifesto’ , spread across multiple duplicate records, but by my count held by at least   190 libraries , including even some of the university libraries at institutions that were bombed by the author .  A variety of material by the Irish Republican Army , including both propaganda advocating their cause, and an actual tactical manual on guerilla warfare .   (The U.S. audience may be unfamiliar both with the profound historical oppression of the Irish under British occupation, as well as with the very violent means the IRA used to resist it, including attacks against civilians).  Various material by the American Nazi Party , and it’s founder George Lincoln Rockwell , including materials put out by their White Power Press. 40 items consisting of intellectual content by Osama bin Laden , including  Messages to the world : the statements of Osama Bin Laden , published by Verso, held by 985 libraries including the one I work at , and available in limited preview and ‘search inside’ on Google Books That list probably wasn’t actually particularly surprising or shocking to any readers. We know and expect libraries to make controversial material available, and even material advocating positions some or all of us believe are horrid or even dangerous. Why?  To begin with, because even people who vehemently disagree with a view, might have research needs that require them to consult material expressing that view.   Pretending something doesn’t exist doesn’t make it go away, and we often need to research and understand things we might wish didn’t exist. But, more fundamentally, because we believe…    well, here is a quote from an American Libraries Association resolution : WHEREAS, the freedom of thought is the most basic of all freedoms and is inextricably linked to freedom of inquiry…. …WHEREAS, ALA reiterates its opposition to any proposal or actions by government that suppresses the free and open exchange of knowledge and information or that intimidates individuals exercising free inquiry; Libraries are constantly under attack by their funders and by the public for the controversial material they distribute, and we even take pride in it: The ALA uses “ banned books week ” as a  marketing campaign , advertising the fact that we circulate books people have tried to suppress. The ALA has an official “ Freedom to Read ” statement: The freedom to read is essential to our democracy. It is continuously under attack. Private groups and public authorities in various parts of the country are working to remove or limit access to reading materials, to censor content in schools, to label “controversial” views, to distribute lists of “objectionable” books or authors, and to purge libraries. These actions apparently rise from a view that our national tradition of free expression is no longer valid; that censorship and suppression are needed to counter threats to safety or national security, as well as to avoid the subversion of politics and the corruption of morals. We, as individuals devoted to reading and as librarians and publishers responsible for disseminating ideas, wish to assert the public interest in the preservation of the freedom to read…. We protect the privacy of our patrons because we think “freedom of inquiry can be preserved only in a society in which privacy rights are rigorously protected” ; and try to resist “these pressures toward conformity [which] present the danger of limiting the range and variety of inquiry and expression on which our democracy and our culture depend.”   Honored members of our profession have even gone to jail rather than be compelled to testify in court in a way that thought threatened freedom of thought. There are all sorts of threats to freedom of inquiry that librarians know about, but most of us would never think that, in the U.S., in the 21st century, there is any threat of actually being  imprisoned for distributing controversial or subversive literature.   That doesn’t happen in America, not anymore, we think.  Tarek Mehanna: Imprisoned for distributing subversive material I thought so too, which is why I was so shocked to learn of the case of Tarek Mehanna . Let’s get this out of the way: What Mehanna was convicted of was “providing material support to terrorists” under the PATRIOT act. But what did he actually do?  As the ACLU of Massachusetts wrote in their brief supporting Mehanna’s case (which the court refused to accept into the record ): In each count of the indictment, the government has alleged acts that are protected under the First Amendment. Those acts include: the Defendant watched “jihadi videos” with friends; lent compact discs to people in the Boston area to “create like-minded youth”; discussed with friends his views of suicide bombings, the killing of civilians, and dying on the battlefield for Allah; translated texts that were freely available on the internet; looked for information online about the nineteen 9/11 hijackers; and inquired into how to transfer files from one computer to another and to keep translated files anonymous. In the FBI’s press release after Mehanna’s sentencing, they express pride in helping to investigate a man who presented such a danger: …The co-conspirators attempted to radicalize others and inspire each other by, among other things, watching and distributing jihadi videos…. …Mehanna continued his efforts to provide material support by, among other things, translating and posting on the Internet al Qaeda recruitment videos and other documents…. These dangerous activities the FBI highlights in their press release (because they were at the center of Mehanna’s conviction): Translating and distributing controversial, subversive, despicable, even dangerous material? That’s a very library-like activity, isn’t it? And apparently it’s one that the FBI will investigate you for, even brag about investigating, an activity which can even put you in prison. Okay, I know some think: maybe there are some first amendment issues here, but this is still a dangerous man, a member of Al Qaeda, right? But Mehanna is not a member or working at the direction of Al Qaeda or any other terrorist organization. Yes, Mehanna has some very radical political viewpoints. It may surprise you, however, that he has a history of arguing on the internet  against the idea that Muslims are religiously allowed to attack  civilians  . If you’re curious about Mehanna’s character, beliefs, or personality, the best thing to do is read his statement at his sentencing hearing . Really, go read it, it’s worth reading. “Tarek translated a variety of Islamic texts out of a scholarly desire to make the texts available to English speakers, to expose them to other viewpoints”, according to his  support website.    The reason or ideological motivation someone has for distributing controversial literature ought not to matter, of course:  The first amendment is supposed to protect even those people whose beliefs we find abhorrent. But it’s still worth pointing out that Mehanna’s beliefs aren’t even what you’d probably think they are, from the propaganda against him.  Read his personal statement, see what he has to say for himself. People still wonder, okay, why would the prosecutor prosecute this guy, if he really wasn’t cooperating with Al Qaeda, if he actually believed attacks on civillians were immoral?  I don’t know.  But he was prosecuted by a US Attorneys’ office well-known for it’s aggressive and vindictive prosecutions, using their prosecutorial discretion against people who have crossed them: The office of Carmen Ortiz, the same office that prosecuted Aaron Swartz .  Mehanna was approached and asked to become an FBI informant, and he refused; maybe that made them mad; that’s what Mehanna thinks. He is in prison for 17 years.  It is a mark of having gotten used to living in the most incarcerating nation on the planet that a 17-year sentence may not seem all that long. But think about how old you’ll be in 17 years, then think about being away from your family, your career, your personal projects for 17 years, locked up in prison. It’s an awfully long time. To be locked up for distributing controversial literature. Some are still suspicious, could this  really  be what’s happened, isn’t this America? Read up on it yourself. Read Andrew March’s Op-Ed in the New York Times : ”one of the most important free speech cases we have seen since Brandenburg v. Ohio in 1969.”  Read the ACLU of Massachusetts’ legal briefs , or Alex Abdo, ACLU Staff Attorney’s, guest blog piece on boston.com . Read Adam Serwer’s article in Mother Jones , Glenn Greenwald on Salon.com , and an article in the Boston area’s MetroWest Daily News .   Read that even one of the jurors in Mehanna’s case is not comfortable with the outcome.  As a librarian, I support Tarek Mehanna The librarians’ professional code of ethics says: In a political system grounded in an informed citizenry, we are members of a profession explicitly committed to intellectual freedom and the freedom of access to information. We have a special obligation to ensure the free flow of information and ideas to present and future generations. A special obligation. Tarek Mehanna should not be in prison, and we should do what we can to get him out. But even more importantly, we have a professional responsibility to society as a whole, to defend freedom of expression and inquiry, and to speak up when we see it threatened. I see our society heading to very scary places.  Increasingly ubiquitous government surveillance without a warrant;  unpredictably harsh punishments for relatively benign crimes at “prosecutor’s discretion” ;  even things that sound like only dystopian science fiction that wouldn’t happen here, like  secret laws authorizing assasination of american citizens . “We have a special obligation to ensure the free flow of information and ideas to present and future generations.” Libraries and librarians have a reputation for standing up for freedom of expression and inquiry. A reputation that many of us are justifiably proud of.  And America needs us to do just that right now. We only deserve that reputation if we are willing to stand up and speak out for freedom of inquiry even when it’s bitterly controversial , when it’s still not too late and things are really on the line, even when it’s not obvious to everyone that we’re right, even at some personal or professional risk  – those are the times when it actually matters, right? Tarek Mehanna was prosecuted for acts that ought to be protected as freedom of expression and inquiry, including translating and distributing controversial material, an activity at the core of libraries’ missions and activities.  If you, like me, feel called by your professional ethics to support Tarek Mehanna, check out  www.freetarek.com  . Write a letter to Tarek , tell him you’re a librarian (anyone in prison likes getting letters from strangers, for real).  I’m sure he could use a donation to his legal campaign ( the appellate case is in process ), although the paypal suggested on freetarek.com is “currently unable to accept funds”. But maybe more importantly, talk to people about Tarek Mehanna and the threat to freedom of inquiry.  Talk to other librarians, and everyone else. Tell people that, as a librarian, you’re deeply concerned about this case.   “Like” the Free Tarek facebook page . If anyone has any interest or ideas in some organized activity as librarians to support Tarek Mahenna, please get in touch. Filed under: General 
3703	Yes	 Aaron Swartz hanged himself a couple of weeks ago, it seems perhaps because of a combination of depression and the threat of a lengthy jail sentence for downloading a good chunk of JSTOR . There are links all over the web about it. You probably know all about it already. I met Aaron Swartz very briefly one day five years ago at a meeting at the Internet Archive headquarters at the Presidio in San Francisco when the Open Library was starting up. I'll never forget that day. I was staying at a motel a block or two away. It was February. There were palm trees! In February! We don't have palm trees in Canada any time of year. I walked over to the building where were were all getting together, and on the way I met a fellow who seemed familiar for some reason. "Hi, I'm Brewster ," he said. There were a couple of dozen people at the meeting, and I don't remember the exact details too well any more, but it was a powerhouse of talent. Karen Coyle was there, and Ed Summers , and Bess Sadler, who remembers the same day, and much more . Casey Bisson and Rob Styles and Eric Lease Morgan were there, and others I've forgotten. My apologies. Aaron Swartz was there. I remember him being young and full of nervous energy. He explained about infogami , the engine behind the Open Library. His hair was shaggy. He paced up and down. I remember him walking up and down the side of the room, eating a raw bagel. That's how I'll remember him, focused and energetic and trying to do something huge and radical: free all bibliographic metadata. He was 21. Mark Pilgrim dropped off the internet a while ago. He's still alive, which is good. Aaron Swartz isn't. But when Mark was blogging he had a saying he'd use every now and then: "Fuck everything about this." Aaron Swartz hanged himself, alone in his apartment in New York City, because the US government was coming down hard on him for downloading articles from JSTOR. Fuck everything about this. 
3704	Yes	 Last month’s HathiTrust newsletter had an interesting technical tidbit at the top about access to out-of-print and brittle or missing items: One of the lawful uses of in-copyright works HathiTrust has been pursuing is to provide access on an institutional basis to works that fall under United States Copyright Law Section 108 conditions: works in HathiTrust that are not available on the market at a fair price, and for which print copies owned by HathiTrust member institutions are damaged, deteriorating, lost or stolen. As a part of becoming a member, institutions are required to submit information about their print holdings for fee calculation purposes. We have also been requesting information about the holdings status and condition of works, to facilitate uses of works where permissible by law (specifications for HathiTrust holdings data are available at http://www.hathitrust.org/print_holdings). As of December 2012, we are using the holdings status and condition information submitted by United States member institutions, in combination with information about the market availability of works stored in the HathiTrust rights database, to determine whether or not access to applicable in-copyright works in HathiTrust is allowed. The specific terms of access are as follows: Access is only available to users affiliated with HathiTrust member institutions in the United States, and only from U.S. soil. In order to gain access, users from member institutions must be authenticated into HathiTrust via Shibboleth using their institutional login. Print copies of the works in HathiTrust must be owned currently or have been owned previously by the institution’s library system. The number of users who can access a given digital copy at a time is determined by the number of print copies held (or previously held) in the library system. If a library system only has one print copy, only one user at a time will be able to access the digital copy. A general scenario for how out of print determinations are made and communicated to HathiTrust is available in the HathiTrust rights database documentation: http://www.hathitrust.org/rights_database#op. Additional information on the service is available at http://www.hathitrust.org/out-of-print-brittle. It is the first three conditions (in the first two bullets) that I find interesting: that access is only available to affiliated users, that access is available only from “U.S. soil”, and that users must authenticate using a HathiTrust member institution’s Shibboleth identity provider. The only way I can think for HathiTrust to enforce the first two conditions is to use Shibboleth . Only through Shibboleth would HathiTrust have assurances that the user is a member of the community and is at a particular place. 1 Libraries more commonly use rewriting proxy servers, like EZproxy , to facilitate access to restricted or licensed material. Rewriting proxy servers effectively hide the location of the user because to HathiTrust the user’s location would appear to be where the proxy server is. I dug a little deeper to see if I could find a definition of “affiliated” — does it mean “only students, faculty and staff” or other looser forms of affiliation like “alumni” or “parent” or “guest”? One of the great strengths of Shibboleth (generally) and the identity management federations like InCommon (specifically) is that they have fairly rigorous definitions of “member” and “affiliated” — piggybacking on the eduPerson eduPersonAffiliation attribute definition . I didn’t find a firm linkage to those defined eduPerson terms, but I did find an interesting declaration in HathiTrust Digital Library Access and Use Policies : “Users must be authenticated members of a HathiTrust institution or individuals using a computer on a HathiTrust institution’s library premises.” That would both seem to simultaneously make the Shibboleth requirement redundant in cases where access came from an on-campus IP address and the question about the definition of affiliation moot — by that statement, anyone using a library terminal would have access even if they weren’t otherwise a member of the campus community. Hmmm, I wonder how they are resolving that contradiction? Digging a little deeper, I found the HathiTrust Shibboleth technical details page where they talk about the kinds of attributes required to use the service. They do require ‘eduPersonScopedAffiliation’ 2 , so they can see the types of membership someone has with an institution. It is also refreshing that the only other element they require is eduPersonTargetedID — the “persistent, non-reassigned, privacy-preserving identifier” known only to the institution and the service. (The eduPerson definition goes on to say: “This attribute is designed to preserve the principal’s privacy and inhibit the ability of multiple unrelated services from correlating principal activity by comparing values. It is therefore REQUIRED to be opaque, having no particular relationship to the principal’s other identifiers, such as a username or eduPersonPrincipalName. It SHOULD be considerably difficult for an observer to guess the value that would be returned to a given service provider.”) It is great to see HathiTrust using the privacy-enhancing aspects of Shibboleth like they were meant to be used. Because they are using targetedID, a prosecuting party would need to subpoena records from both HathiTrust (to get the eduPersonTargetedID of the person they were interested in) and the member institution (to see who that eduPersonTargetedID was assigned to) to pin research activities to a specific individual. Footnotes Let’s set aside for a moment the relatively trivial ways that IP address geolocation can be fooled: VPN services, web proxies, etc. If you want to know more, just Google “how to bypass geographical restrictions” . eduPersonScopedAffiliation is nearly the same as eduPersonAffiliation; it just tacks “@ lt;institutiongt; ” on the end. Link to this post! 
3705	Yes	 “ I remember years ago I was walking on the beach and there was a guy walking towards me and he was wearing a T-shirt that said, ‘Question Authority,’ and my immediate reaction was, Who says? ” — Donald E. Westlake ( Via .) Filed under: quotes 
3706	Yes	The rhetoric of quot;The Bill of Rights and Principles for Learning in the Digital Agequot; — The Bill of Rights and Principles for Learning in the Digital Age is a new document authored and signed by twelve scholars, technologists, and entrepreneurs including Duke professor and author Cathy Davidson, organizational technologist John Seely Brown, and Udacity CEO Sebastian Thrun. It#39;s been making the rounds among those of us interested in such topics, also receiving coverage at The Chronicle of Higher Education and Inside Higher Ed. After reading it, here#39;s what struck me most: in our high-tech, computerized era, one of the most powerful technologies is still just plain old ordinary language and the contexts in which it... ( read more )
3707	Yes	The Web Data Commons is extracting the structured data discovered in the Common Crawl corpus, and they’re making the extracted data and some high-level analyzed data available for free to all. I took a look at which properties of http://schema.org/Book were actually used in the wild in the August 2012 corpus . My hope is to inform, in a small way, the discussion around extending Schema.org to better accommodate bibliographic data happening through the W3C Schema Bib Extend Community Group . By seeing what is actually being used, we might make better decisions about how Schema.org could be extended. I looked at the Class-Property-Co-occurrence Matrixes spreadsheets. Looking at just the “Properties” worksheet shows the number of Pay Level Domains (PLDs) that use each property. It appears that schema.org/Book only shows up in the Microdata spreadsheet and not in the RDFa one, though it seems as if they might have some differences I don’t understand. Of the 23 properties listed only 18 are valid properties (5 are not and given an asterisk below). About 32 properties of http://schema.org/Book are not used at all (there are some properties with deprecated plural duplicates I may have counted), so not every property is being used so far. This was just doing some quick counts, so my numbers might be off a bit. Update : Jodi Schneider makes a good point on the public-schemabibex list , that terms not defined by schema.org “indicate either problems in understanding (e.g. surely there’s some other price property that could be pulled) or actual needs.” So I thought I would go into that a bit more for those properties. The “price” and “priceCurrency” properties are a misunderstanding and should probably be turned into a schema.org/Offer which does have price and priceCurrency properties. The “numPages” property should be “numberOfPages” though I don’t know if there was an older version of schema.org that included this form of the property. “publishDate” should probably just be “datePublished.” Finally, “ratingValue” should be within an AggregateRating item. This is the same problem as with “price” and “priceCurrency.” Some publishers do not seem to understand that items ought to be nested or that they need to be nested in a particular way. So while we might expect to find some expressed desires for new properties, what we are finding instead are problems in understanding or typos. I wonder if there also needs to be some education about the extension mechanism . Extending or adding new properties is allowed. While the schema.org partners may not completely understand a new property at first, if a property gains use, it may be accepted into the schema. At least using non-standard properties is one way to advertise the desire for these properties. As new data comes out of Web Data Commons, I will try to report on it. So here are the properties that are actually used followed by the number of PLDs that use that property: Property Pay Level Domain Count http://schema.org/Book/name 375 http://schema.org/Book/image 298 http://schema.org/Book/author 244 http://schema.org/Book/description 212 http://schema.org/Book/isbn 157 http://schema.org/Book/publisher 141 http://schema.org/Book/offers 113 http://schema.org/Book/url 87 http://schema.org/Book/numberOfPages 83 http://schema.org/Book/bookFormat 81 http://schema.org/Book/datePublished 75 http://schema.org/Book/aggregateRating 52 http://schema.org/Book/inLanguage 48 http://schema.org/Book/price* 46 http://schema.org/Book/numPages* 45 http://schema.org/Book/reviews 31 http://schema.org/Book/bookEdition 25 http://schema.org/Book/genre 23 http://schema.org/Book/about 20 http://schema.org/Book/publishDate* 17 http://schema.org/Book/keywords 15 http://schema.org/Book/priceCurrency* 11 http://schema.org/Book/ratingValue* 10 
3708	Yes	 The Collision of Copyright and E-science, https://t.co/TMFzZtk5 A Faster Image Search [Google], http://t.co/i22PXpUx After Ten Years of Publishing, What#39;s Next for PLOS?, http://t.co/NE5GADw1 8 Questions with Peter Brantley, http://t.co/Qvl8urHp Free Database of the Entire Web May Spawn the Next Google, http://t.co/iZlfLZXw Why Magazines Are Using Digital to Boost Prices, Not Bolster Innovation, http://t.co/i1EI8S18 | Digital Scholarship | The post Current News: Twitter Updates for 1/24/2013 appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3709	Yes	 We ( Katja Mayer and I) have just finalized our course on digital methods for next summer term. We’ll be teaching at the Department of Social Studies of Science , University of Vienna. The seminar will be part of the master program “Master of Arts – Science. Technology. Society”, but, in principle, everyone can join – if I understood it correctly. I’m not really familiar with the new curriculum yet though.. But I’m sure it will be fun since theoretical inquiry will be mixed with hands-on empirical research – fed by our own research and recent studies from our colleagues. © image credit: Digital Methods Initiative (Amsterdam) Here’s the syllabus. Join us if you like! Or otherwise, follow our seminar blog (which we plan to write if we find the time to do so ) Digital Methods – How Do We Know? New information and communication technologies (ICTs) and social media like Google, Facebook and co. crucially change our daily lives. The “computational turn”, however, also affects the social sciences and humanities. Applications and software programs – ranging from simple presentation to complex network visualization tools – increasingly intrude into and shape scientific practices and the ways we conduct, present, and disseminate research. Rooted in the tradition of Science and Technology Studies (STS) this seminar addresses the central question of how digital methods of all kinds influence “how we know”. We will experiment with and critically examine various software tools and visualization techniques to better understand the growing number of digital methods used not only in the natural sciences, but increasingly also in the social sciences and humanities. We will ground these new tools respectively in older research traditions, discuss implications digital methods have in the process of knowledge production, and how to meet new challenges arising in the growing field of “digital social sciences and humanities”. Drawing on literature from STS and critical new media studies, we aim to discuss the following questions: What are “digital methods” and what kind of knowledge(s) do they create? How do (digital) methods organize our research objects and what realities are enacted by them? How can hyperlink networks and Google analyses be used to analyze controversies like climate change or biofuels? How can social networking services, and Twitter in particular, be used to analyze political discourses and “hacktivist mobilization”? What information hierarchies and biases does commercial software trigger in the research process, and how can we handle this problem? What is “big data” and what are the benefits and dangers of large-scale computational science? And, finally, what are the implications of open access, creative commons, and Wikis in the context of both research and politics? 
3710	Yes	I'm almost certain this relationship is significant. Side note: Is there a meaningless-correlations tumblr yet? [ via ] 
3711	Yes	  The following post was originally published on Alex Leavitt’s website . Fed Up I have been a PhD student for less than two years. On the other hand, for six years, I have been a member of the free culture movement, which emphasizes the importance of access to and openness of technology and information. Recently, I’ve been frustrated… sad… angry. Just over a year ago, a friend and fellow member of the free culture community, Ilya Zhitomirskiy, committed suicide. He was 22. Just one week ago, an acquaintance, a friend of many close friends, and — really — a role model, just one year older than myself and networked with many institutions and individuals I have come to work with and/or admire* committed suicide. Aaron Swartz was admired for his bravery to stand up for his ideals, and the work he put into the world demonstrated no less than exactly those ideals. I followed his actions with awe and complete understanding. *Such as MIT, the Berkman Center, the EFF, Creative Commons; and frankly, there are too many individual people to list. When I look at the goals that Aaron pursued, I feel disappointed in myself for not also working harder toward similar aspirations. But I want that to change. Though Aaron frequently called for more extreme forms of activism, such as through his Guerilla Open Access Manifesto , I want to begin with what is an easy solution that has been solvable for years, which I do not even think deserves to be called activism. It’s merely what should be. So I have decided that I will further my ideals by refusing to restrict the knowledge I create in outdated publishing models that retain and maintain a detrimental status quo within the academic community. I know that Aaron detested the absurdity of contemporary academic establishments and norms; in many regards, I agree with his sentiments wholeheartedly. But even though I still commit to furthering my career as a pursuer and producer of knowledge, I recognize that things just have to fucking change already. We need to fix this. Accessible by Default While I’ve supported and campaigned for open-access in the past as a member of Students for Free Culture , I can no longer support the outdated, profit-driven models of modern academic publishing companies. I feel it is finally time to stand up and challenge the status quo, in which academics send knowledge to journals whose sole purpose of existing is to disseminate that knowledge to others. By blocking access to and charging fees for that knowledge, I believe that journals have failed in the primary purpose for the education system as a whole: to teach and share knowledge with others. There’s an inherent flaw in modern academia: scholars are expected to publish in “high ranking” journals, foundational compilations of academic articles that — over time — have become engrained in the institutional social fabric of knowledge production within the academy. They are, however, closed to the public. But these kinds of journals do nothing for someone like me, a young, digitally networked, curious researcher. Unlike scholars of the past, I no longer wait for journals to appear on my doorstep to gain access to the latest scholarship; the internet, search engines, and personal homepages are my distributors and discovery mechanisms. It angers me that scholars think that the solution to this status quo is to post copies of their articles online. Some academics, in reality, must publish in closed journals and thus decide to free their own writing individually. But in my opinion, that is not enough. By continuing to publish in and thereby support closed journals, we continue to maintain and uphold an outdated mode of knowledge circulation. Scholars need to realize that the base act of publishing in a closed journal continues its existence: even if you make your own knowledge available, others’ may not be. I’m no longer afraid of the threat that publishing in certain closed journals might affect my career. My future depends on my work being relevant and widely read. And I will never support nor desire an institution that would punish me for pursuing those goals. What I Must Do I have come to the conclusion that my knowledge should and will be accessible. Therefore, I will only publish openly. I will only publish in open access journals. I will only review for open access publications. I will only sign book and chapter contracts that share copies of the text online (whether licensed through Creative Commons or made available in some other, free form). I will only attend conferences that make any related publications accessible for free. I will also only contribute to open-access publications that do not charge authors inordinate costs for publishing. What You (and We) Can Do Change begins when we as a community move forward together. However, absolute change can only come about with absolute decisions. If you are a graduate student: Adopt the same stance: only publish in open access academic venues; refuse all others. Encourage your cohort, classmates, friends, colleagues, teachers, and advisors to do the same. If you are a senior scholar: Help young scholars like me establish a variety of new and current open venues for publication. Refuse to review for closed journals; volunteer to review for open access publications. Cite scholarly works from open access venues when research is worthy of it. Recognize junior faculty’s efforts in the tenure process for pursuing open access ideals. Petition closed journals to shift their policies to open access. Help spread the word that closed publications are no longer acceptable. The movement toward open access as a norm within academia has been and will likely be a slow and ongoing process, and many better people than myself have contributed to changing the status quo in substantial ways. But I feel that individual decisions like the one made on this page can contribute to that shift and ultimately change this situation. If you are ready to take the same step, I encourage you to promote your thoughts on your own webpage and spread the word. There’s no image to share, no petition to sign, no badge to display: at this critical and crucial point, there is only action. Alex Leavitt is a PhD student at the Annenberg School for Communication amp; Journalism at the University of Southern California. Follow him on Twitter at @ alexleavitt . 
3712	Yes	Where I try to suggest Twitter as a "conversation" does not mean using Twitter as a chat-room. Continue reading » 
3713	Yes	«Images sacrées d’une société laïque 1 », les icônes du photojournalisme sont, pour les chercheurs en communication Robert Hariman et John Louis Lucaites, des emblèmes qui s’imposent d’eux-mêmes à l’esprit du temps. Couronnement d’une tradition qui ne retient de la photographie de presse que ses succès les plus glorieux, l’ouvrage No Caption Needed (“Pas besoin de légende”) confirme la représentation selon laquelle l’image médiatique serait une nouvelle peinture d’histoire – mais une peinture spontanée, paradoxale, miraculeuse, dont on se borne à constater les effets. Comment la photographie, qui relève théoriquement de l’enregistrement documentaire, peut-elle produire ces allégories dignes des arts graphiques? La rareté même de ces réussites semble confirmer le caractère exceptionnel de la rencontre «de la signification d’un fait, et (…) d’une organisation rigoureuse des formes 2 », selon la formule fameuse de Henri Cartier-Bresson, désignée par l’historien de la photographie Vincent Lavoie comme «définition principielle de l’image de presse 3 ». Une autre description est possible. Un quotidien comme Le Monde publie plus de 10.000 photographies par an. Une telle quantité suggère la difficulté d’une analyse systématique. La combinaison de cette contrainte avec le développement encore timide des études visuelles explique qu’il n’existe à ce jour aucune description globale des pratiques iconographiques dans la presse d’actualité, dont l’analyse se déploie essentiellement à partir des sources textuelles. Son versant visuel n’a fait l’objet que d’explorations partielles, sous la forme d’études circonscrites (photographes, publications, thématiques) ou par le biais du commentaire de short-lists d’icônes photographiques. Une telle approche permet de retrouver le confort de l’examen traditionnel d’ensembles iconographiques de petite taille 4 . Mais elle présente un défaut important, passé inaperçu de la plupart des spécialistes: celui de valider une hiérarchie imposée par la profession journalistique, tout en gommant précisément l’existence de ce système de sélection. Pas une des images qui forment l’armature des analyses visuelles du photojournalisme qui n’ait fait l’objet d’un processus de distinction par ses acteurs, notamment par l’intermédiaire des prix internationaux comme le Pulitzer (à partir de 1942) ou le World Press Photo (à partir de 1955). Le mystère de leur popularité ou de leur appropriabilité exceptionnelles paraît évidemment moins opaque si l’on se souvient qu’elles ont été sélectionnées, reproduites ou commentées de façon répétée, autrement dit que ces photographies sont elles-mêmes devenues des objets médiatiques à part entière, soumis à l’exposition itérative qui produit la notoriété. Images au carré, les photo-icônes perdent le statut de médiateurs transparents de l’information pour prendre celui de formes graphiques valorisées, au terme d’une institutionnalisation au caractère largement auto-réalisateur. L’aveuglement des commentateurs à ces mécanismes en dit long sur leur capacité à identifier les logiques médiatiques. L’image, composante de la valeur scalaire de l’information Lorsqu’elle veut convaincre que la “madone de Bentalha” de Hocine Zaourar, prix World Press 1997, est composée comme un tableau, Juliette Hanrot plaque sur la photographie les références picturales et les outils d’analyse formelle enseignés dans les écoles des beaux-arts: carré harmonique, distribution de la lumière, nombre d’or 5 … «Cette symbolique de la couleur, de la lumière, du vêtement, donne à la madone de Bentalha une profondeur de lecture inhabituelle pour une photographie» estime-t-elle, sans s’apercevoir que c’est précisément cet effort interprétatif qui dote l’image de couches signifiantes supplémentaires. Schémas de Juliette Hanrot, La Madone de Bentalha, 2012. Ce travail d’exégèse aurait-il paru légitime sur la photographie d’un fait divers ou d’un accident quelconque? Un éditeur aurait-il consacré un ouvrage à l’illustration d’un événement ordinaire, fût-elle dotée de qualités esthétiques exceptionnelles? L’attention suscitée par cette photo d’actualité, que prolonge le livre de Juliette Hanrot, est bien le fruit d’un mécanisme médiatique, dont le premier ressort est l’émotion suscitée par l’événement. C’est l’importance accordée à l’un des massacres les plus sanglants de la guerre civile algérienne qui explique la valeur prise par la photographie, recadrée et diffusée en priorité par l’AFP à ses clients, puis sélectionnée comme illustration de Une par quelque 750 quotidiens les 24 et 25 septembre 1997 – exceptionnelle mise en avant qui fait à son tour l’objet de commentaires réflexifs par les journalistes spécialisés, confirmant son extraction du flot des images d’actualité et le passage au statut d’icône. C’est Michel Guerrin qui, le premier, rapproche l’image de la femme en pleurs d’une Pietà et l’intitule “madone 6 ”, ouvrant la voie d’une longue série de malentendus interprétatifs. L’autorité du spécialiste de photographie du Monde permet de balayer ce que cette qualification a d’incongru dans le contexte d’une guerre civile en territoire musulman. Cette association ne peut être le fait ni de la femme photographiée, qui portera plainte en diffamation pour cette appellation, ni du photographe algérien, qui «a du mal à s’expliquer l’impact de ce document 7 ». La référence à l’iconographie chrétienne ne peut s’expliquer que par un effet de lecture, une surinterprétation de la part des éditeurs occidentaux, qui trouve sa motivation dans le réflexe médiatique usuel de recourir à une image symbolique pour illustrer une tragédie. Hocine Zaourar, massacre à Bentalha, 1997 (AFP), format original/format publié. Mustafa Bozdemir, tremblement de terre en Turquie, 1983 (Hürriyet Gazetesi). Georges Mérillon, deuil au Kosovo, 1990 (Gamma). Comparée à d’autres images proches également primées par le World Press, comme la photo par Mustafa Bozdemir de cinq enfants pleurés par leur mère après un tremblement de terre (1983) ou celle du deuil d’un jeune Kosovar par Georges Mérillon (1990), la photographie de Hocine Zaourar présente la particularité de ne pas montrer de cadavres. On peut penser qu’elle a été retenue pour son caractère allégorique, convenu et inoffensif, corrigée par un recadrage décontextualisant et dotée d’une légende erronée par ceux qu’il faut bien nommer ses véritables auteurs: les picture editors , responsables de l’ensemble des choix qui déterminent la visibilité et la compréhension de l’image. En régime médiatique, la visibilité d’une photographie dépend exclusivement de la place qui lui est assignée par la hiérarchie de l’information. Système de sélection et d’amplification de l’information, l’outil médiatique doit organiser ces opérations dans le contexte concurrentiel qui forme son écologie, faute de quoi il ne produirait que du bruit. L’impératif de hiérarchisation de l’information découle logiquement de cette contrainte. Destiné à être consommé dans un contexte de loisir par un public étendu, le produit médiatique ne peut s’appuyer que sur des principes sémiotiques élémentaires, dont la simplicité garantit l’appropriation. Parmi les outils permettant d’organiser la hiérarchisation de l’information, le principe le plus puissant est la variation d’échelle. Page de Une du New York Times du 16 avril 1912. Dans l’espace médiatique, à chaque contenu publié est associé une indication d’échelle, qui participe de son éditorialisation et permet d’en gérer la distribution. L’importance d’une information se mesure d’abord de façon spatiale, à sa surface et à son emplacement (ou à ses équivalents temporels dans les médias de flux). Une information de taille plus grande est plus importante qu’une information de taille plus petite – indication de nature relative et contextuelle, dont l’interprétation repose sur l’assimilation dans la durée d’un ensemble évolutif de codes éditoriaux. De nombreux autres facteurs, comme la variation de réitération, la notoriété de l’auteur, l’envoi d’un correspondant, etc., complètent cette attribution de valeur par effet d’échelle, qu’on peut pour cette raison dénommer valeur scalaire . L’image fait non seulement partie des contenus soumis à cette loi, mais elle constitue en elle-même une indication d’échelle susceptible de valoriser un contenu. La présence ou l’absence d’une iconographie, sa taille ou sa qualité sont autant de facteurs qui contribuent à signifier et à naturaliser l’importance relative d’une information. Comme la dimension du titre, le format de la photographie du Titanic, publiée sur cinq colonnes à la Une du New York Times du 16 avril 1912, sert à manifester la signification attribuée par le quotidien au naufrage du paquebot. Le choix de Life en 1966 d’une iconographie en couleur pour illustrer l’enterrement de Churchill est de même une forme lisible de valorisation de l’événement, à un moment où ce traitement est encore exceptionnel 8 . L’interprétation d’une image en contexte médiatique dépend entièrement de sa valeur scalaire. Le “Baiser” de Doisneau, qui devient à partir de sa réédition en poster en 1986 l’une des plus célèbres photographies au monde, a d’abord été publié en petit format en 1950 dans la rubrique “ Speaking of Pictures ” de Life . Parmi les six illustrations du reportage, cette image fait partie de celles auxquelles ont été réservées le plus petit format. Dotée d’une faible valeur scalaire, elle ne fait alors l’objet d’aucun commentaire ni d’aucune réappropriation. Quelles que soient ses qualités formelles, sa taille modeste, qui suggère une importance réduite, ne peut éveiller l’attention ni légitimer une lecture approfondie. Doisneau, quot;Le Baiserquot;, première publication dans Life, 1950; poster, 1986. Il est absurde de tenter d’analyser une photo de presse avec les outils du formalisme pictural. Le cadre médiatique impose des règles autonomes, qui en modifient la perception en profondeur. Les prix du photojournalisme ne distinguent pas les images en fonction de critères formels, mais en raison de l’exemplarité de la traduction visuelle d’un événement de valeur médiatique élevée. La valeur scalaire d’une photographie, dépendante d’une occurrence éditoriale et non établie dans l’absolu, définie par l’éditeur et non par le photographe, est le moteur primordial du travail interprétatif. Lorsqu’elle croit décrire les qualités esthétiques de la photo de Hocine Zaourar, Juliette Hanrot déploie en réalité les effets de valorisation médiatiques qui en ont fait une icône. Le problème de l’expressivité Dans un monde qui s’éloigne à grandes enjambées de la tradition catholique, il est étrange que les commentateurs des icônes photographiques ne s’interrogent pas sur le paradoxe que représentent les allusions aux pietà , madones et autres références à une culture savante dont il est douteux qu’elles puissent être identifiées par le public auquel s’adresse la presse généraliste. Plutôt qu’à l’influence souterraine de mystérieuses survivances, leur mention peut s’expliquer plus simplement par l’empreinte de la formation commune des acteurs médiatiques en position de responsabilité dans le domaine visuel, qui ont appris à n’accorder légitimité et valeur qu’à une expressivité justifiée par la référence aux chefs-d’œuvre de la peinture 9 . Femme en pleurs, bas-relief antique, musée du Capitole, Rome. Werner Bischof, famine en Inde, 1951 (Magnum). Tadashi Okubo, quot;Madone des décombresquot;, 2011 (Yomiuri Shimbun/AP/AFP/Reuters, détail). La lecture qui associe la douleur de personnages féminins au deuil de la mère du Christ est compromise par diverses erreurs d’interprétation. Elle ignore que l’iconographie mariale se rattache elle-même à l’antique tradition des pleureuses. Elle méconnaît surtout que l’introduction de ce motif dans l’univers médiatique est une invention de l’imagerie humanitaire après-guerre 10 , contexte qui réserve cette figure à des victimes non-occidentales et comporte d’embarrassantes connotations paternalistes. Pourtant, le recours à cette interprétation est significatif du problème posé par les usages narratifs de la photographie. Le sous-ensemble circonscrit par le terme d’icônes est caractérisé par une forte expressivité du message visuel. Or, ce trait contredit le dogme de l’objectivité factuelle associé en principe aux usages de la photographie dans la presse. Sélectionner une photo pour ses propriétés expressives ne va nullement de soi au sein d’une pratique qui revendique la neutralité documentaire. C’est pourquoi les usages narratifs de l’image d’enregistrement, qui renvoient plus naturellement à d’autres contextes, comme la communication publicitaire, ont toujours fait l’objet de justifications alambiquées. Popularisé par le magazine Life à partir de 1936, le développement du “ pictorial journalism “, qui est censé caractériser la forme magazine, est rituellement expliqué par la concurrence des nouveaux médias – cinéma, radio et télévision 11 . Frontispice de L. Vitray, J. Mills, R. Ellard, Pictorial Journalism, 1939 (photo: Charles Hoff). Le recours, à partir des années 1990, à la notion d’icône pour désigner le summum de la production photojournalistique est une autre façon de neutraliser le paradoxe de l’image narrative. Soulignant le caractère exceptionnel de ces chefs-d’œuvre, la caractérisation par la référence picturale éloigne le spectre de la publicité en lui substituant la justification par l’art et la haute culture. Dans le domaine de l’image fixe, un fossé infranchissable sépare en théorie les usages narratifs de l’objectivité documentaire. Les premiers relèvent du champ de l’illustration, la seconde est l’affaire de l’image d’enregistrement. Non que la photographie ne puisse être utilisée à des fins expressives. Mais cet usage est supposé retirer au document photographique les propriétés d’attestation qui le rendent utile au journalisme d’information. Photographie d’illustration et photographie documentaire sont censées relever de deux univers symétriques et antagonistes: la première est l’affaire du graphiste et implique une commande a priori; la seconde, celle du photographe et suppose une publication a posteriori. La première relève de la communication et admet la retouche, le montage et toutes formes d’édition d’une image qui n’est que le support d’un message; la seconde produit un document authentique, porteur d’une information objective, et implique le refus de toute manipulation 12 . Mais la réalité des pratiques déploie un espace plus complexe et plus fluide, où la photographie d’information peut très bien recourir aux ressources de l’expressivité. Le format magazine, habituellement identifié aux hebdomadaires populaires des années 1930, bénéficie à l’évidence de l’essor contemporain de la communication visuelle et de la vitalité des formes publicitaires, mais la porosité des domaines est plus ancienne et s’expérimente dès la fin du XIXe siècle 13 . Un espace constitue tout particulièrement le laboratoire de ce dialogue: celui de la couverture des magazines ou de la Une des quotidiens, qui s’inspire du modèle de l’affiche pour proposer un descriptif autopromotionnel du contenu de chaque publication, et dont la composante iconographique favorise tout naturellement l’attractivité et la suggestion. Couvertures de quot;La vie au grand airquot;, magazine sportif français, 18/03/1899, 07/07/1904, 03/11/1904. La gamme des usages expressifs de l’image photographique recouvre un spectre étendu, où l’on peut notamment identifier le recours à l’instantané sensationnaliste, forme prisée de la presse populaire des années 1930-1970 14 ; la composition illustrative, qui repose sur la création d’un rapport entre texte et image et la sélection de l’iconographie en fonction d’une intention narrative 15 ; ou plus récemment la forme symbolique ou allégorique, typique du genre photo-iconique et qui s’est largement développée dans les médias audiovisuels 16 . Ces diverses manières de faire parler les images, qui peuvent se combiner, ont pour caractéristique de faire l’objet de stratégies de dénégation ou d’endiguement de la part des professionnels. L’implicite, ressort inavouable de la narration visuelle La mythologie du journalisme décrit comme une présentation neutre et objective ce qui est fondamentalement un exercice de qualification de l’information . De même que le choix d’un titre ou d’un chapeau, l’iconographie participe de manière décisive à ce travail d’orientation de la lecture. Mais les formes visuelles comportent une marge d’ambiguïté plus importante que les énoncés linguistiques (Roland Barthes suggérait de définir la photo comme un « message sans code 17 »). Pour cette raison, un grand nombre d’usages expressifs de l’image mettent en jeu une dimension implicite, ressort rhétorique aussi puissant qu’inavouable en régime médiatique. Le Monde, quot;Nicolas Sarkozy évoque l#39;hypothèse de sa défaitequot;, 25/01/2012. A l’occasion d’un voyage en Guyane effectué le 21 janvier 2012, Nicolas Sarkozy, alors président de la République en campagne, convie les journalistes à un “off” au cours duquel il évoque pour la première fois l’hypothèse de sa défaite. Pour accompagner cette information, Le Monde, Libération et Les Inrockuptibles retiennent une illustration similaire qui montre l’équipe gouvernementale embarquée dans une pirogue. Ce choix repose à l’évidence sur une composition illustrative dont l’aspect comique découle du rapprochement de l’évocation de l’échec électoral avec la situation périlleuse du président et ses proches sur un frêle esquif. Interrogé à propos de cette option illustrative, Mathieu Polak, responsable du service photo du Monde, nie vigoureusement toute intention humoristique: «La meilleure photo est celle qui allie esthétique et info, et qui fonctionne dans la page. De ces points de vue, celle-ci était la plus pertinente. Il y en avait d’autres dans la même série, mais Sarkozy était grimaçant. La caractéristique de fond des photos politiques, ajoute-t-il, est qu’elles sont surinterprétées. Nous, on a l’habitude de voir ce type d’images: chaque élu qui se rend en Guyane, à un moment donné, monte dans une barque sur le Maroni. Au moment de choisir cette photo, les interprétations possibles n’entrent pas en ligne de compte 18 .» La responsable du service photo des Inrockuptibles admet en privé avoir choisi la même image «parce que Sarkozy est ridicule, et à cause de la symbolique de la barque», mais la réponse de son homologue du Monde est révélatrice du caractère inavouable du jeu allégorique. Dans le contexte éditorial du “quotidien de référence”, il n’est pas possible, en dehors des espaces spécifiquement dédiés à la caricature, de revendiquer un traitement humoristique d’une information politique de première grandeur. Si l’ambiguïté de l’image permet en permanence aux éditeurs de convoquer mine de rien des connotations implicites qui orientent la lecture, elle les autorise aussi à jouer le jeu du non-dit, et à se dédouaner par la subjectivité de l’interprétation. Comme la plaisanterie ou l’allusion, l’image permet de dire tout en prétendant ne pas l’avoir dit – un mécanisme typique des messages implicites, dont la compréhension repose sur la restitution de la part manquante par le destinataire 19 . Bien loin de l’idéal documentaire, les photo-icônes fournissent une version lisible et acceptable des tragédies médiatiques pour le public occidental. Plutôt que des images sans légende, les fleurons du photojournalisme sont à proprement parler des légendes en image, des stéréotypes visuels élaborés pour faciliter la compréhension d’une signification rendue évidente – au risque de l’erreur ou de la tromperie. Spencer Platt, “Young Lebanese Driving Through Devastated Neighborhood of South Beirut“, World Press Photo of the Year 2006. Lorsque le World Press couronne en 2007 la photo de Spencer Platt représentant un groupe de jeunes libanais circulant à bord d’une Mini Cooper rouge dans les ruines de Beyrouth, c’est pour l’interprétation qu’elle inspire spontanément de la dérive voyeuriste censée caractériser la société contemporaine. Pas de chance, l’histoire qu’on lit dans cette image n’a que peu de rapport avec la réalité. Interrogés par un journal belge, Jad, Bissan et Tamara Maroun, Noor Nasser et Liliane Nacouzi, les jeunes gens de la photo, expliquent qu’ils n’étaient pas des touristes en goguette, mais bel et bien des réfugiés qui revenaient pour la première fois constater l’état de leur quartier dévasté par les bombardements israéliens. Confrontés aux fortes contraintes narratives du genre journalistique, les professionnels utilisent largement la gamme des ressources expressives de l’image, tout en maintenant la fiction de l’instant décisif cher à Cartier-Bresson. Le travail des chercheurs n’est pas de reproduire complaisamment cette mythologie, mais d’analyser les véritables conditions de production du récit visuel. Plutôt que sur un échantillon réduit de cas exceptionnels décontextualisés, cette analyse doit s’effectuer à partir de l’observation des cas usuels en contexte 20 . Plutôt que sur une théorie générale des images, elle doit s’appuyer sur les fonctionnements spécifiques du journalisme et ne jamais perdre de vue les diverses formes d’articulation du contenu visuel avec les autres composants du dispositif médiatique. Preprint, article à paraître in: D. Dubuisson, S. Raux (dir.), Les nouveaux paradigmes du visuel , Presses du Réel, 2013. ( Iconographie sur Flickr ) Robert Hariman, John Louis Lucaites, No Caption Needed. Iconic Photographs, Public culture and Liberal Democracy , Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 2007, p. 2. Henri Cartier-Bresson, “L’instant décisif” (1952), Les Cahiers de la photographie , n° 18, 1985, p. 20. Vincent Lavoie, Photojournalismes. Revoir les canons de l’image de presse , Paris, Hazan, 2010, p. 182. «Lorsque nous analysons des images journalistiques, nous sommes fortement tentés d’emprunter la voie qui s’est avérée si fructueuse pour l’évaluation critique de la peinture de chevalet et pour toute production analogue, à savoir celle de l’unicité et de la décontextualisation», Tom Gretton, “Différence et compétition. L’imitation et la reproduction des œuvres d’art dans un journal illustré du XIXe siècle”, in Georges Roque (dir.) Mineur ou majeur? Les hiérarchies en art , Nîmes, Jacqueline Chambon, 2000, p. 120. Juliette Hanrot, La Madone de Bentalha. Histoire d’une photographie , Paris, Armand Colin, 2012. Cf . Michel Guerrin, “Une madone en enfer”, Le Monde , 26 septembre 1997. Ibid . Cf . Gisèle Freund, Photographie et Société , Paris, Le Seuil, 1974, p. 141-143. Clément Chéroux, dans Diplopie. L’image photographique à l’ère des médias globalisés. Essai sur le 11 septembre 2001 , Paris, Le Point du Jour, 2009, montre également le rôle joué par les stéréotypes culturels dans l’uniformisation de la traduction visuelle du 11 septembre. Cf . Valérie Gorin, “La photographie de presse au service de l’humanitaire. Rhétorique compassionnelle et iconographie de la pitié”, in Gianni Haver (dir.), Photo de presse. Usages et pratiques , Lausanne, éd. Antipodes, 2009, p. 141-152. Laura Vitray, John Mills jr, Roscoe Ellard, Pictorial Journalism , New York, McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1939, p. 4. Cf . Valentina Grossi, Pratiques de la retouche numérique. Enquête sur les usages médiatiques de la photographie , mémoire de master, Lhivic/EHESS, 2011, 137 p. Cf . Thierry Gervais, “ L’invention du magazine. La photographie mise en page dans La Vie au grand air, 1898-1914 “, Etudes photographiques , n° 20, juin 2007, p. 50-67. Cf . Barbie Zelizer, About to Die. How News Images Move The Public , Londres, Oxford University Press, 2010. Cf . André Gunthert, “ L’illustration, ou comment faire de la photographie un signe “, Culture Visuelle, 12 octobre 2010. Cf . Jacques Siracusa, “L’allégorie comme rhétorique journalistique”, Le JT, machine à décrire , Bruxelles, éd. De Boeck Université, 2001, p. 157-165. Cf . Roland Barthes, “Le message photographique“, Communications , n° 1, 1961, p. 127-138. Cf . André Gunthert, “ Sarkozy en pirogue, une image innocente? “, Culture Visuelle, 28 janvier 2012. Cf . Catherine Kerbrat-Orecchioni, L’Implicite , Paris, A. Colin, 1998 (2e éd.). Cf . Audrey Leblanc, “ Fixer l’événement. Le Mai 1968 du photojournalisme “, Sociétés et Représentations , n° 32, décembre 2011, p. 57-76. 
3714	Yes	Must read. In What it’s Really Like Working with Steve Jobs Glenn Reid shares his experiences working with Steve Jobs and how he really was just a product guy who happened to be CEO: “I can still remember some of those early meetings, with 3 or 4 of us in a locked room somewhere on Apple campus, with a lot of whiteboards, talking about what iMovie should be (and should not be). It was as pure as pure gets, in terms of building software. Steve would draw a quick vision on the whiteboard, we’d go work on it for a while, bring it back, find out the ways in which it sucked, and we’d iterate, again and again and again. That’s how it always went. Iteration. It’s the key to design, really. Just keep improving it until you have to ship it.” I love that image of the team iterating on iLife software before any of it existed. And then: “Not only did he know and love product engineering, it’s all he really wanted to do. He told me once that part of the reason he wanted to be CEO was so that nobody could tell him that he wasn’t allowed to participate in the nitty-gritty of product design. He was right there in the middle of it. All of it. As a team member, not as CEO. He quietly left his CEO hat by the door, and collaborated with us.” FYI: I’m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post What it’s really like working with Steve Jobs appeared first on Bokardo . 
3715	Yes	Ed Van Gemert has been named the Vice Provost for Libraries and University Librarian at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Here#39;s an excerpt from the announcement : Van Gemert served as deputy director and associate director for public services in the General Library System before assuming interim leadership. He also held the interim role in 2006, while former librarian Ken Frazier served as interim UW-Madison chief information officer. Van Gemert is an active member of the Association of Research Libraries, the Committee on Institutional Cooperation and the Council of Wisconsin Libraries. He also chairs the Strategic Advisory Board of the HathiTrust, a partnership of major research institutions and libraries working to preserve and ensure access to the record of human knowledge. His research interests include organizational management and digital library development. | Digital Curation Bibliography: Preservation and Stewardship of Scholarly Works (EPUB, PDF, paperback, and XHTML) | Digital Scholarship | The post Ed Van Gemert Named Vice Provost for Libraries and University Librarian at University of Wisconsin-Madison appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3716	Yes	The Lehigh University Library is recruiting a Director, Library Technology. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : This position is responsible for the collaborative development and implementation of the Lehigh University Library#39;s technology and digital content strategy. This role will serve as a member of the Vice Provost#39;s leadership group advising VP and peers on library technology-related matters. The post Director, Library Technology at Lehigh University Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3717	Yes	The Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media at George Mason University has released Omeka 2.0 . Here#39;s an excerpt from the announcement : The most important improvement is a completely revamped admin interface, which includes many features to improve workflow and make it easier to build your sites. The search functionality is also dramatically improved, and covers much more of the content in the sites. . . . Omeka users will notice improvements right away with an upgrade to 2.0 or the launch a new installation. For example, site administrators have much better tools to build custom site navigation without having to hack around in the code (Check for quot;Navigationquot; under the Appearance settings.) Also, you#39;ll notice major improvements in file handling. Now you can reorder item files, and the system produces derivatives (thumbnails, etc.) from a much wider array of file types, not just image files. | Research Data Curation Bibliography , Version 2 | Digital Scholarship | The post Omeka 2.0 Released appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3718	Yes	The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library is recruiting a Visiting Research Programmer for Repository Development. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : As part of a team of repository developers, the Research Programmer will be responsible for providing programming and technical support for all components of a large-scale digital preservation management system, codename Medusa, and the technical infrastructure for the IDEALS scholarly communications initiatives within the University Library. As necessary, the Research Programmer may also provide technical support to other scholarly communication or digital preservation research projects or related programs within the Library. | Digital Scholarship | The post Visiting Research Programmer for Repository Development at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3719	Yes	 It features Yours Truly and the Farley fellow you see primping there in preview—or wearing a hat, now that I had to re-upload the video—and we're talking about The Hobbit . You're ... welcome?&#xd; &#xd; &#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd; &#xd; It goes without saying that there are kinks to work out—if only because I'm in charge of the production—and that while many Internet Traditions are honored, some are violated. Case in point: the blog's beloved ampersand is a monstrosity in the font the rest of the credits need to be in. (I promise that sentence will make perfect sense once you watch it.) An "enhanced" audio file will be available shortly, though I can't vouch for the quality of said "enhancements" because we haven't figured out what they'll be yet outside of "enhanced."&#xd; &#xd; But fear not! You'll learn many things in this podcast, including (but not limited to) which of you lot inspire us to invent gang signs just so we can throw some in your honor. And also many things about The Hobbit . Enjoy! 
3720	Yes	 
3721	Yes	 
3722	Yes	 Building digital cohorts: The WHY MediaCommons 3541589159_f018d13ae3 (1).jpg Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities. left 
3723	Yes	 Commenting, Conversation, and Community MediaCommons Screen shot 2013-01-25 at 8.35.03 AM.png Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities right 
3724	Yes	 A significant number of young people today, when they enter the workforce, will never have been exposed to the valuable skills that come with arts education and specifically the theater experience — thinking on one’s feet; effectively communicating; practicing and rehearsing; writing; and collaborating as a team. This is a missed opportunity. According to the President’s Committee on the Arts amp; Humanities, in its groundbreaking report “Reinvesting in Arts Education,” arts education is a particularly powerful tool in reaching students who are otherwise turned off by standard school subjects. – Bruce E. Whitacre: Theater Education Programs Are in Demand for Workforce Creativity (HuffPo) . 
3725	Yes	 Attention, students!  Attention, learners!  Attention, teachers!   Hackathon in progress.  You are invited! read more 
3726	Yes	 Building digital cohorts: The WHY MediaCommons 3541589159_f018d13ae3 (1).jpg Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities right 
3727	Yes	 This project seeks to provide a platform for Open Access publishing that is:   Reputable and respected through rigorous peer review Sustainable Digitally preserved and safely archived in perpetuity Non- read more 
3728	Yes	If you have creative ideas on civic engagement through new media, then the Looking@Democracy contest offers a great opportunity to try them out. Sponsored by the Illinois Humanities Council with support from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the competition will offer $100,000 in prizes to short digital media pieces that illustrate either why government is important to our lives or how to strengthen democracy in America together. Formats for digital media they mention include videos, audio clips, animations, music videos, infographics, and Facebook and iPhone apps. The call for proposals is here . The competition begins February 4, 2013 and closes April 30, 2013. 
3729	Yes	 Inside HigherEd’s Serena Golden recently profiled the Modern Language Association’s “Avenues of Access: Digital Humanities and the Future of Scholarly Communication” panel.  As part of the presentation, Cathy gave a talk entitled “Access Demands A Paradigm Shift.”  Here’s what Golden had to say about Cathy’s presentation which parsed questions of scale and access in the digital humanities: Panelist Cathy Davidson, Ruth F. DeVarney Professor of English and John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies at Duke University, tackled a different aspect of “access” in her talk, contending that — in contrast to the current craze for MOOCs, which “massively scal[e] an outmoded model of education” — academics “should be massively remodeling our institutions for contributive, connected participatory learning.” But Davidson — herself the founder of  HASTAC , a decade-old online and in-person network of scholars and others interested in the transformative potential of new technologies for teaching, learning, communicating, and conducting research — also argued that the digital humanities are intrinsically connected to ideas about breaking down barriers and undermining hierarchies.  In its early days, Davidson said, “the field was largely, though not exclusively, about digitizing and scaling and making ‘available’ existing archives. The rhetoric, too, was about access in a fairly narrow conceptual sense: digitizing existing knowledge so more people could use it.” But as their work has grown and evolved, Davidson said, “digital humanists have seen that, once you change access, you open the floodgates to a range of other questions about content, authority, hierarchy, and power that you may not even know you were asking.” To read the full article, visit Inside HigherEd .   
3730	Yes	 View the ALA Ebook Scorecard Report To help libraries navigate through the ebook environment, the American Library Association (ALA) released today “ The Business Model Scorecard ,” (pdf) a report that examines specific variables often seen in library ebook license contracts ( Download the pdf report ). The report, which was created by the ALA Digital Content amp; Libraries Working Group (DCWG), can be used by librarians to weigh ebook contract variables most important to their library. The report assesses 15 ebook contract variables of importance to libraries, ranging from ebook title inclusion, to ebook pricing, to immediate patron access. These variables include important ebook lending characteristics, such as ebook revenue streams for publishers and ebook accessibility for people with disabilities. “We developed the ‘Scorecard’ to ensure that librarians have the information they need to better negotiate ebook licensing agreements with publishers,” said Erika Linke, co-chair of the DCWG’s business models subgroup. “While no single business model will offer the best terms for all libraries, this report details lending terms that libraries can use to craft model contracts that work for their library systems.” The report is a follow up to the 2012 ALA report “Ebook Business Models for Public Libraries,” a report that describes general features and attributes of the current ebook environment and outlines constraints and restrictions of current business models. View the full report The post 15 Essential Ebook License Terms appeared first on District Dispatch . 
3731	Yes	I just learned that Drexel’s Hagerty Library is not only lending out Macbook Pros to those on campus, but is doing so via a vending machine type interface. Drexel University introduced a 24-hour, self-service vending machine located in the W. W. Hagerty Library that will dispense MacBooks for use by students, faculty and staff. Drexel is the third university on the East Coast to introduce the kiosk, which holds up to 12 MacBooks that could be checked out free by anyone with a Drexel ID for five hours. The kiosk provides a 24-hour solution to students who want to work on projects and assignments or study at the library late into the night. Found via Gizmodo that pointed me to Drexel’s official release . The post Macbook Vending Machine appeared first on What I Learned Today... . Related posts: Espresso Book Machine Books from the Espresso Machine Lucky Lucky Me 
3732	Yes	 Scott Weingart caught this post addressed, ostensibly, to the brilliant undergraduate who finds him or herself considering pursuit of the PhD. The post is worth reading in its entirety, though it does seem to be fairly well inflected by the British academy experience, but I found its summation of the nature of academic work compelling: [...]
3733	Yes	 Folks, we need to have a conversation. About Twitter. And generosity. And public shaming. First let me note that I have been as guilty of what I’m about to describe as anyone. You get irritated by something — something someone said or didn’t say, something that doesn’t work the way you want it to — you toss off a quick complaint, and you link to the offender so that they see it. You’re in a hurry, you’ve only got so much space, and (if you’re being honest with yourself) you’re hoping that your followers will agree with your complaint, or find it funny, or that it will otherwise catch their attention enough to be RT’d. I’ve done this, probably more times than I want to admit, without even thinking about it. But I’ve also been on the receiving end of this kind of public insult a few times, and I’m here to tell you, it sucks. I am not going to suggest in what follows that there’s no room for critique, even on Twitter, and that we all ought to just join hands and express our wish for the ability to teach the world to sing. But I do want to argue that there is a significant difference between thoughtful public critique and thoughtless public shaming. And if we don’t know the difference, we — as a community of scholars working together online, whose goals are ostensibly trying to make the world a more thoughtful place — need to figure it out, and fast. There are two problems working in confluence here, as far as I can tell. One is about technological affordances: Twitter’s odd mixture of intimacy and openness — the feeling that you’re talking to your friends when (usually, at least) anyone could be listening in — combined with the flippancy that often results from enforced, performative brevity too frequently produces a kind of critique that veers toward the snippy, the rude, the ad hominem. The other problem is academia. As David Damrosch has pointed out in another context, “In anthropological terms, academia is more of a shame culture than a guilt culture.” Damrosch means to indicate that academics are more likely to respond to shame, or the suggestion that they are a bad person , than to guilt, or the indication that they have done a bad thing . And he’s not wrong: we all live with guilt — about blown deadlines or dropped promises — all the time, and we so we eventually become a bit inured to it. But shame — being publicly shown up as having failed, in a way that makes evident that we are failures — gets our attention. That, as Damrosch notes, is something we’ll work to avoid. And yet, it’s also something that we’re more than willing to dole out to one another. There’s a significant body of research out there — some of my favorite of it comes from Brené Brown — that demonstrates the profound damage that shame does not only to the individual but to all of the kinds of relationships that make up our culture. Not least among that damage is that, while a person who feels guilty often tries to avoid the behavior that produced the feeling, a person who feels shame too often responds by shaming others. So, we’ve got on the one hand a technology that allows us, if we’re not mindful of how we’re using it, to lash out hastily — and publicly — at other people, for the amusement or derision of our followers, and on the other hand, a culture that too often encourages us to throw off whatever shame we feel by shaming others. Frankly, I’ve grown a little tired of it. I’ve been withdrawing from Twitter a bit over the last several months, and it’s taken me a while to figure out that this is why. I am feeling frayed by the in-group snark, by the use of Twitter as a first line of often incredibly rude complaints about products or services, by the one-upsmanship and the put-downs. But on the other hand, I find myself missing all of the many positive aspects of the community there — the real generosity, the great sense of humor, the support, the engagement, the liveliness. Those are all way more predominant than the negative stuff, and yet the negative stuff has disproportional impact, looming way larger than it should. So what I’m hoping is to start a conversation about how we might maximize those positive aspects of Twitter, and move away from the shame culture that it’s gotten tied to. How can we begin to consider whether there are better means of addressing complaints than airing them in public? How can we develop modes of public critique that are rigorous and yet respectful? How can we remain aware that there are people on the other end of those @mentions who are deserving of the same kinds of treatment — and subject to the same kinds of pain — that we are? 
3734	Yes	 Above: Michelle Lee (l) and Serena Wales (r) with Textizen, a News Challenge: Mobile winner. Photo credit: Molly J. Smith.  On Jan. 10 I joined staff from about 20 foundations at the  MacArthur Foundation  to compare notes on philanthropic prize competitions in a gathering organized by  The Case Foundation ,  The Joyce Foundation  and  MacArthur Foundation . We kicked off the meeting by sharing lessons, concerns, victories and funny stories. Based on that discussion, I pulled together a presentation of seven issues that we’ve been wrestling with on the  News Challenge  over the last year. 1. Community is hard:  Several News Challenge winners have told me that they nearly didn’t apply, as they didn’t consider themselves “newsy” enough. That makes me wonder how many other potential winners have not applied out of a misplaced concern that they don’t think they fit what we’re trying to do. To counteract that, we’ve found it helps to talk to people in person, not just online, about the contest. Last year at SXSW we met at least two teams who later applied and won the  News Challenge on Networks  during an event at the Driskill Hotel. 2.  The network :  Connie Yowell  of MacArthur Foundation emphasized that the Digital and Media Learning challenges work because they’re part of a larger community of innovators. I’m not sure that we’ve succeeded at building a community of media innovators that exists outside of the News Challenge. We may be getting there, but we haven’t yet had a way to leverage our community towards a full exchange of ideas. We’re counting that our new contest platform will facilitate ideation and the exchange of ideas. We can only fund a handful of projects, but our hope moving forward is to build a News Challenge in which people don’t stop at the application phase, but continue conversations and collaborations between projects. 3.  Scale : A couple of people in the meeting mentioned that they struggle with how much to give. To encourage entrepreneurship, one said, they want to give enough to enable a project to get off the ground, but not so much as to assuage the need to innovate. Last year, we created a  Prototype Fund  in part as a way to address this issue. We’ve made about a dozen investments so far. When we assess our 2013 work in a few years, I suspect we’ll find that the projects initiated through the  Prototype Fund  will have had a greater long-term impact than those funded through the  News Challenge . One side effect is that we route the more nascent projects into Prototypes instead of the  News Challenge , perhaps taking some of the edginess out of the contest. Ultimately, however, our commitment is not to the  News Challenge ; it’s to identify the ideas and teams most likely to advance our mission to inform and engage communities.   
3735	Yes	UCLDH co-director Melissa Terras is quoted in an article on the effect big data is having on academic disciplines.Read the whole article here: http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2013-01/25/big-data-end-of-theory
3736	Yes	 note-a-bear : gallifreyansquid : karatam : colsandbradders : i am so slow you can look at the posts on a certain day? jfc url.tumblr.com/day/2011/12/25 lt;- what you posted last christmas omfg chRIST WHY DIDN’T I KNOW THIS BEFORE???? makes my fckn life EASIER #WHY ISN’T THIS SHIT IN THE HELP SECTION BECAUSE ABSOLUTELY NOTHING OF USE IS EVER IN THE HELP SECTION I MUST SPREAD THE WORD TO MY FOLLOWERS I think someone else mentioned this a few days ago, but reblogging this for followers. Continue reading → 
3737	Yes	This week, ”A Bill of Rights and Principles for Learning in the Digital Age,” a document co-authored by Cathy and colleagues throughout the public and private sectors, was released in the hopes of galvanizing a conversation surrounding the considerations and rights of online learners.   Inside HigherEd reports on the reception of this document: It was probably inevitable that any group of people who sought, however tentatively, to define “the rights, responsibilities, and possibilities for education in the globally connected world of the present and beyond” would find themselves accused of excluding important parties, of being “top-down,” and of hubris. But the cadre that drafted “ A Bill of Rights and Principles for Learning in the Digital Age ” — which included scholars such as Cathy Davidson and Jesse Stommel, technologists such as John Seely Brown, and entrepreneurs like Udacity’s Sebastian Thrun — thought that amid all the hubbub about massive open online courses, “it would be useful to have some kind of document that describes the broader vision for where digital learning can go,” and for ensuring that the needs of learners themselves, rather than of institutions or providers or instructors, are central, said one of the authors, Peer 2 Peer University’s Philipp Schmidt. And while the authors drew significant praise Wednesday in many quarters for the thoughtfulness of the document, they also absorbed the  expected critiques  on various fronts, especially from those noting that the group lacked obvious any representatives of individual learners themselves. In response, the authors reiterated more forcefully a point they had sought to make in initial document: that it was meant to be the fledgling starting point for something repeatedly revised and ultimately much more broadly representative. “If the result is a big conversation that gets people engaged and involved, including self-learners, then it’s a success,” said Schmidt. “This is not intended to be anything remotely like a final version.” Petra Dierkes-Thrun, a lecturer in comparative literature at Stanford University (who is also, as she puts it, “married to the MOOC,” as Sebastian’s wife), said that she and her husband had gathered the dozen invitees in December with the goal of crafting a “manifesto” of sorts to put into context the hysteria that has evolved around MOOCs, specifically, and online learning more generally as a result.  As they talked, the manifesto concept morphed into an attempt to initiate, for the digital age, the kinds of  student bills of rights  that others had created before them. The effort embraced the idea, she said, that the digital age is different, offering both possibilities — “a powerful and potentially awe-inspiring opportunity to make new forms of learning available to all students worldwide” — and dangers, with massification also making possible greater exploitation. And the bill of rights they crafted acknowledges both positives and negatives. It cites the prospect that digital forms of education can broaden student access to high-quality learning (“online learning has the potential to ensure that this right is a reality for a greater percentage of the world’s population than has ever been realizable before”). But it also recognizes the risk that massive amounts of data on students will be collected (and possibly misused) and that students deserve financial transparency (“the right to know how their participation supports the financial health of the online system in which they are participating,” including for “free” courses) and pedagogical transparency, so they know whether a course will lead to a credential or not, and if so, what its authenticity and value are. “Students have the right to care, diligence, commitment, honesty and innovation,” the authors write. “They are not being sold a product — nor are they the product being sold. They are not just consumers. Education is also about trust. Learning — not corporate profit — is the principal purpose of all education.” As Silicon Valley and venture capital money flows into the online learning market (and the MOOC space, including for Sebastian Thrun’s Udacity), one might expect Thrun and other entrepreneur types to bristle at, rather than sign on to, calls for significant financial transparency. But Dierkes-Thrun said her husband fully believes in “holding providers accountable,” and that the document represents the “12 of us speaking together.” Amid the cheers of “Well done, folks” and other praise for the document in blogs and on Twitter, some critiques emerged. In an e-mail message, Cable Green of Creative Commons tweaked the authors for implicitly contributing to the mania about MOOCs by failing to note that while they are “open” in the sense of who can enroll in them (by virtue of being free), many of the course materials are not openly licensed so they can be used and reused in the public domain. And Anya Kamenetz, an advocate for truly open and do-it-yourself learning,  noted  that while a “bunch of educators got together to write a ‘bill of rights’ for online learners,” the problem was “they didn’t ask any learners what they wanted.” Several of its authors,  in blogging  about the process and its result, went out of their way to acknowledge those limitations and to make clear that they didn’t intend for theirs to be the last word. “We want lots of people with lots of different groups to remix it, edit it, make it their own,” said Schmidt. You can read more, at Inside HigherEd.  
3738	Yes	the unstoppable combination of cats, gamification, and internet: Catmoji The only thing more engaging than effective gamification is the incredible power of cat pictures on the internet. Combine that with, well gamification, and you get over 21,000 cat photos and videos shared in a single month by the new gamified cat-media platform, Catmoji . Born out of Startup Chile, Catmoji is a platform dedicated to users who want to purruse through vast quantities of cat pictures and videos. Users are able to follow their favorite cats and share the feline media on Facebook. Given the rampant success of existing cat-fanatic websites like Lolcats and Reddit’s cat subreddit , Catmoji’s is planning on setting itself apart from these players through their Emoji emoticon reaction system. All submitted content must be accompanied with an emoticon tag to express the owner’s emotions toward their beloved furiends and viewers can react similarly. Users can eventually earn badges as achievements and catokens for using the site, although the developers have not yet stated what these  catokens  will be redeemable fur. The other gamified element in place is the use of  catavatars , in which users are able to select from a number of cats to be their avatar. Special custom avatars will be created for the star-users of the community, so as to incentivize actions through status within the Catmoji Community (See SAPS ). Catmoji is comprised of a small two person team and manages to be the most attractive looking cat-sharing medium out there right now.The developers have stated plans to produce a mobile app soon, despite their mobile-responsive design, and plan on monetizing the Catmoji service through cat-related advertisements. Unfortunately, the service is currently in an invite-only beta but you can request an invite to join the service. So what do you think? Is Catmoji purfect or will it be another catastrophe? via TheNextWeb    --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Gamified Cat Sharing Site Catmoji Gets 21K Shares in 1 Month appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3739	Yes	"The Defacement of Desire" by Braxton Soderman and Roxanne Carter : This collaborative poem is designed as an installation at Brown University’s CAVE , a cube-shaped room equipped with projection in all six directions, surround sound, and multiple input devices, such as 3D goggles, gloves, and head tracking. Soderman and Carter use this last input significantly in this work as described in their artists’ statement: Surrounded by four giant close-ups of cinematic starlets gazing down upon you, there is no choice but to look (or look away). Using the built-in “headtracking” feature of the Cave, a portion of the starlet’s face in your line of sight fades away, thus interrupting the (masculine) desire to possess through the gaze: you cannot help but see through what you desire to possess. The poetic texts exists in images of handwritten journals, which a reader can bring up through their interaction with the piece, further exploring the politics and poetics of privacy, trespass, possession through gaze and touch. An interesting twist on the dynamics of this poem is that the authors have made the source files available for readers to download and view in the Cave Writing software, which provides a partly-functional full screen preview. The problem with the preview is that the CAVE has different input devices from a computer, so you get a very limited experience of the work and can’t interact beyond clicking on some images to change them and listening to the audio recorded reading of lines of verse. However, access to the source files frees the materials from the interface, providing the intimacy of the view from the editor, or even a directory listing. The editor interface allows you to read the scripted behaviors, the arrangement and naming of the objects, position, timelines, groupings, and more opening it up to Critical Code Reading . A directory listing allows you to listen to audio clips and look at images outside of the organizational structure of the piece, which allows for a fascinatingly different kind of experience of the text. Ironically enough, the pleasures to be found in these files and interfaces only tease one’s desire to experience the work in the environment it was designed for. This work is greater than the sum of its parts, and one of its parts is in Providence, Rhode Island. Considering that CAVE writing workshops and courses have been offered at Brown University since 2002, it might be worth a pilgrimage. 
3740	Yes	 FEP researchers Anna Duhon, Conrad Vispo, Claudia Knab-Vispo How do we help facilitate people’s connection to the land? This is the central question that drives our work at the Hawthorne Valley Farmscape Ecology Program, a small, community-based research and outreach initiative on a working educational farm in the mid-Hudson Valley. Our trio of researchers includes a botanist, a wildlife ecologist and a social scientist. Together we strive to open different windows of knowledge onto our county’s ‘farmscape’--the term we use to describe a landscape that even in its most out-of-the way corners has been shaped by a long history of agricultural land use and for which agriculture continues to be a defining factor. The windows we open are often very different--a look into the native butterflies and the fields they thrive in, or the industrial history as it impacted land use, or the new farmers that are just marrying their visions to a piece of land. With the landscape as the connecting core of our research, we are always striving to mesh our different disciplines into a more holistic picture. This involves bridging areas of research that are often separate or even at odds, such as the cultural and the ecological, or agronomic and conservation sciences. By opening such different windows, we hope not only to deepen our own perspectives, but also to invite further exploration and engagement with the land from a broad base of interests; creating entry points that might draw in farmers alongside history buffs, or wildflower enthusiasts alongside local food lovers. Our approach throughout, however, is to frame these many perspectives as part of a larger story of the land and our relationship to it. This framing, and the resulting broad conceptualization of the Program, crystallized early on when my colleagues were surprised by how interested people were to hear ecological stories in an historical context. A basic focus has thus been studying history in order to understand the present, such as through historical ecology that works back from the present to ask: how is what you see in front of you a product of the history that came before? This approach inherently ties present to past (not always an easy link) and, because it’s a process history, easily links to thinking about how the now evolves into future history. We ask in multiple ways: Where has this land been? Where is it now? Where do we want it to be? And by extension: What is our role in this unfolding story? This approach calls on us to find ways of deeply involving people in this story and conversation, whether through participatory research or sharing our research through community-engaging outreach. For nearly a decade we have been fortunate to be in the unique position of doing place-based research in a rural county with our primary audience being the people who live here. We have honed in on the scale of the county because that seems to be the right scale for storytelling; big enough to contain ecological and cultural diversity, but small enough so it still feels like a place with which people identify. Yet we always are grappling with the challenge of reaching and engaging diverse members of this county in meaningful ways. Click here for map as PDF One of our recent projects taught us a lot about the potential for sparking rich community dialogue through shared research. In the New Farmer Narrative Project we interviewed 20 different farmers who had started or taken over farms in the county within the last decade about their journey into agriculture, their current farm and their visions for the future. From these interviews, photographic tours of the farms and aerial and historical photographs of the land, we created a 17-panel moveable exhibit [downloadable as a PDF file] that was displayed at 10 different local public venues (mostly libraries) over the course of four months, usually staying a couple of weeks at each. Initially this was the extent of outreach we had planned, but fortunately we decided to hold a kick-off event in conjunction with the first installation of the exhibit. That event quickly showed us the potential for gathering a wide group of farmers and community members together and opening up discussions about the story of farming in this area. We ended up organizing a kick-off event for every stop of the county-wide tour, most involving some presentation of the research and a panel of new farmers from the immediate vicinity sharing their experiences and answering questions. We were surprised to find these events filling up to overflowing with 40 or 50 people, including older farmers, longtime residents, more recent transplants, and even local high school students. The conversations that emerged were noticeably different in different parts of the county. In a hilly corner of the county that has long been dairy country, people grappled with the decline in dairy farms, and the fact that new farmers--even those raised on dairy farms--could not see a path ahead for continuing the dairying tradition. For many people it was a revelation that the number of farms in the county was actually increasing and that there was a whole group of energetic new farmers with small, diversified operations. Large dairy and fruit farms have long been the dominant face of the county’s agriculture, and as these industries have struggled, farming has often been viewed as part of a declining past, not a vibrant future. Through these events we were able to frame the stories of new farmers into the larger context of the changing story of agriculture in this county, and open up a meaningful space for shared conversation amongst diverse community members about how these changes are being experienced and engaged. Looking ahead, we are hoping to build on this idea of creating traveling exhibits that can be paired with events and forums in local community venues. One way we’re planning to do that is through a participatory research project that would invite people to share their unique views on the landscape through resident-employed photography and other photo-elicitation methods. Researchers have used such methods with farmers (Beilin 2005; Sherren, Fischer and Price, 2010) as well as other groups with land-specific knowledge (Dandy and Van Der Wal 2011) and the general public (Beckley, Stedman, Wallace and Ambard, 2007) to inquire about different aspects of people’s use and perception of the land. Such methods might easily lend themselves to a photo essay display and conversations sparked by the experience of getting to “see” the landscape through different eyes, opening up another set of windows on the land and its story. View of Hawthorne Valley Farm from a nearby hill (March 2008) Of course the story is never complete and we continue to work as a Program on how to truly integrate our different disciplines. For example, at about the same time as I was exploring the perspectives of new farmers, my colleagues were studying the same farms from an ecological perspective--looking at how native plants and animals from the surrounding areas affect agricultural production and what habitats farms provide for native plants and animals. How might we better incorporate these varied perspectives? We are hoping to start answering this question through our current multi-year initiative, the Living Land Project, which will explicitly involve paired ecological and cultural research that will be integrated into exhibits, forums, and ultimately, an eco-cultural field guide. In his 2002 article making the case for photo-elicitation, Harper describes the effectiveness of using photographs that "break the frames" of people’s normal view in order to elicit deeper reflections in interviews. This is a good description of how we might wish our research to function overall. Whether zooming in to look at the favorite place of a farmer or zooming out to look at the distribution of ground beetles across the landscape, we are hoping to provide new perspectives that might jostle people’s normal views of the land just enough to create reflective space for deeper engagement. Perhaps one of the biggest frames that can be broken is the present-centered view. By rooting our research in the history of this area while asking what kind of future on the land we want to create, we invite people to see how they might consciously fit themselves into this evolving story as thoughtful and engaged participants. ~ Anna Duhon, Hawthorne Valley Farmscape Ecology Program References Beckley, T., Stedman, R., Wallace, S. and Ambard, M. (2007). Snapshots of what matters most: Using resident-employed photography to articulate attachment to place. Society amp; Natural Resources: An International Journal, 20(10), 913-929. Beilin, R.J. (2005). Photo-elicitation and the agricultural landscape: ‘seeing’ and ‘telling’ about farming, community and place. Visual Studies, 20(1), 56-68. Dandy, N. and Van Der Wal, R. (2011). Shared appreciation of woodland landscapes by land management professionals and lay people: An exploration through field-based interactive photo-elicitation. Landscape and Urban Planning, 102, 43-53. Harper, D. (2002).  Talking about pictures: a case for photo elicitation.  Visual Studies, 17(1), 13-23. Sherren, K., Fischer, J., and Price, R. (2010). Using photography to elicit grazier values and management practices related to tree survival and recruitment. Land Use Policy, 27, 1056-1057. 
3741	Yes	 Bloomberg Billionaires [bloomberg.com], designed by the Bloomberg Visual Data team, is a daily-updated interactive dashboard of the world's richest people. Many filtering and graphing features are relatively hidden behind beautiful buttons, such as a number-only view in the ranking list, and the variable choice of the vertical and horizontal axes in the scatter plot view. Also, a dynamic timeline at the bottom allows one to explore the historical rankings of the last 10 months. Accordingly, one can perceive how the large majority of billionaires has significantly been gaining wealth during the last year (and daily gains or losses of more than 500 million dollars in not uncommon), while very few have seen any relative losses. For those wanting to marry a billionaire without any direct heirs, the number of children can be plotted as well. 
3742	Yes	We used Omeka.net to help partners at another University publish a database of Catholic letters (not published yet, so it’s not ready to share) and I think everyone was quite taken by the ease of using the hosted version of Omeka. Unlike the locally installed version of Omeka, Omeka.net is a freemium web service that requires little to no coding skills and no server to get started. Essentially, Omeka.net works like a hosted blog platform such as Blogger or WordPress.com. You have limited options in terms of look and feel, but the underlying collection building tools are there. What I like about Omeka.net: Free or very cheap. You can put together a free collection if your needs are small. If, as was our situation, you have to import your metadata via spreadsheet or have some other plugins you need (some you have to pay for an account to use), then you’ll have to pay a subscription fee. But the fees are likely quite affordable for your organization. Easy peasy. Very little if any understanding of web technologies is required. In our situation, we had some problems that required some technical thinking mostly in terms of cleaning up our spreadsheet , converting it to UTF-8 and making it work with Omeka, but this kind of expertise should be easy to find in your institution. Once the platform is set up, non-technical staff can pretty much run it and add to it without issue. It’s pretty good and just getting started. In the past few months, new themes and plugins have started to come online and I expect that this platform will be very robust in just another year or two. Your collection will become part of the Omeka.net network of collections, which should help with Search Engine Optimization as well as serendipitous discovery. It feels pretty rock-solid and reliable. What I don’t like about it: It’s still early days and some features from the full Omeka version are not yet available. Very limited theming, meaning you have only 8 different themes and none of these let you control color. However, you can add banner images and footers to brand it. The help documentation is fairly helpful for most situations, but if you run into some advanced issues, you’ll have to hope someone on the Omeka forums can help. 
3743	Yes	 Attention, students!  Attention, learners!  Attention, teachers!   Hackathon in progress.  You are invited! read more 
3744	Yes	My post about native American language health gets the most hits on this blog, so I decided to do some minor editorial housekeeping on it last night. While I was fixing awkward syntax, however, I noticed something blatantly obvious about the first graph, which ranks living native languages according to most speakers: It’s essentially a Pareto distribution , a long tail. I don’t know much about the mathematics underlying it. I only know that it arises naturally across an array of social, geographic, economic, and scientific phenomena. Derek Mueller recently wrote an article about this exact distribution amongst scholarly citations in the field of rhetoric and writing. “Conceptually,” he writes, “the long tail comes from statistics and graphing; it is a feature of a power law or Pareto distribution—graphed patterns that underscore the uneven distribution of some activity or phenomenon” (207). And yet this unequal distribution exists in phenomena as disparate as citations in academic journals and numbers of language speakers. A power law writ deep in the mathematical fabric of things? 
3745	Yes	Jesse Schell is a Master Of Engagemeent The moment a discussion about gamification dips into a deep discussion about game mechanics and what constitutes proper design, it seems inevitable that Jesse Schell’s book, The Art of Game Design: A Book of Lenses becomes mentioned as the official reference to prove someone’s point. Jesse’s long history of working as a game-designer has earned him numerous accolades and his position as the CEO of Pittsburgh’s largest videogame studio. Having been the former Creative Director of the Disney Virtual Reality Studio,  the former chairman of the International Game Developers Association, and being named named one of the world’s Top 100 Young Innovator by MIT’s Technology Review, Jesse knows how to make a damn good engaging experience and is teaching as a professor at Entertainment Technology at Carnegie Mellon University. As a man well-versed in the idea of engaging audiences, Jesse’s expertise extends into gamification pretty significantly. As it turns out, the principles for designing games have more or less become the framework for designing everything and by virtue of logic, Jesse is damn good at designing for well, everything! The ability to engage with all audiences with games is what has earned Jesse’s spot as one of the keynotes at GSummit SF 2013 . In his featured talk, Jesse will explain how gamification is merely just a small part of the overall movement to influence all of society with the power of games. His talk will detail some of his design principles and ideals to maximize motivational design for a number of different experiences. You can expect to learn: Gamification” is about the creation of pleasurable experiences for the purposes of improved motivational design. Pleasure is powerful, complicated, and contextual. Five important keys to improving motivational design are appeal, engagement, effortlessness, uncheatability, and disembarrassmentation To get a hint of Jesse’s design prowess, be sure to watch him as the next featured guest on Gabe Zichermann’s Gamification Revolution starting at 1PM EST, on Monday, January 28. --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Prominent Gamifiers: Jesse Schell appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3746	Yes	 If you teach college-level math, science, or engineering, please take a couple of minutes to complete the survey described below. It’s part of a study aimed at updating the classic book Talking About Leaving: Why Undergraduates Leave the Sciences . One of the study investigators is Mark Connolly of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a colleague of mine from the POD and CIRTL Networks. Mark’s a fantastic education researcher, and this is a worthy project. Dear STEM Colleague: According to  a recent report by the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology , roughly 60% of students who enter college with the goal of majoring in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) end up graduating in a non-STEM field. As part of  a national five-year study of why undergraduates leave STEM majors , we are conducting  a very short survey  of STEM faculty and instructors. What we want to know is this:  What level of math proficiency do STEM faculty consider a good indication that an incoming student is likely to succeed in a STEM major?  The survey  has just two questions: the one above and a second that asks about your field of study. Neither question asks for information that can personally identify you, so your answers are anonymous. Our findings will be used only to make sampling decisions for our study. We will greatly appreciate your cooperation. Feel free to share the link for this survey lt; http://go.wisc.edu/adai0s gt; with colleagues. Contact us if you have any questions or concerns. Mark Connolly (University of Wisconsin–Madison) amp;  Anne-Barrie Hunter (University of Colorado Boulder) Principal Investigators, Talking about Leaving Revisited (Funded by the National Science Foundation and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation) Image: “ my view for the next week ,” abrunvoll, Flickr (CC) 
3747	Yes	Every semester Kelly Johnston and I teach a workshop series around specific topics in GIS.   Typically, we stick to the basics for fall but branch out and mix it up a little by teaching new topics in spring.  Our sessions are one hour long and generally designed to be hands-on and don’t require prior knowledge to participate.  Preregistration is not required. All sessions are free and open to the UVa and larger Charlottesville community. Please find a PDF of the below schedule here . Acquiring and Using US Census Data in GIS Wednesday, February 6 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, February 7 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) The United States Census has made big changes in their surveys and in the online tools to find and use US Census datasets. Join us for a hands-on session introducing the newly redesigned American Factfinder online tool for discovery and access to free data from the US Census. No experience working with US Census data or geographic information systems is required. Defining Watersheds with Digital Elevation Data Wednesday, February 13 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, February 14 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) Want to know the extent of any watershed? This session will teach you the process of delineating any watershed in ArcGIS using elevation data. Using Neatline Wednesday, February 20 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, February 21 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) Neatline is a set of plugins for Omeka developed by the Scholars’ Lab. With this tool, anyone can create beautiful, complex maps and narrative sequences from collections of archives and artifacts, and to connect maps and narratives with timelines that are more-than-usually sensitive to ambiguity and nuance. See http://neatline.org/ for more information. Making Cartograms Wednesday, February 27 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, February 28 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) A cartogram is a thematic map that uses area to represent something other than area. Imagine a map where country area represents population, or cancer rates. You will learn how to send a powerful message with this thematic technique. Introduction to GDAL Wednesday, March 6 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, March 7 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) The Geospatial Data Abstraction Library is an open source utility library for raster geospatial data formats. As a library, it presents a large number of utilities to the calling application for all supported formats. It also comes with a variety of useful command line utilities for data translation and processing. We will focus on the command line utilities. Do It Yourself Aerials Wednesday, March 20 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, March 21 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) We have three aerial platforms, balloon, kite and hexcopter. Come get an update from us and find out how to do your own aerial photography. Introduction to Quantum GIS Wednesday, March 27 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, March 28 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) Quantum GIS (QGIS) is an open source, multi-platform GIS. While not nearly as powerful as ArcGIS, the 80/20 rule applies. Probably 80% of the things most users want to do with GIS can be done with QGIS. The session will introduce the interface and participants will make some nice maps. Learn more about QGIS at http://www.qgis.org. Advanced Techniques with Quantum GIS Wednesday, April 3 4:00 – 5:00pm Campbell Hall, Room 105 Session repeats on Thursday, April 4 3:00 – 4:00pm Alderman Library, Room 421 (Electronic Classroom) One of QGIS’s strengths is its ability to pull in various streaming open standard data services. We will pull some data in from a remote location and do some spatial analysis. 
3748	Yes	The Network Development and MARC Standards Office is in the process of updating the MODS and MADS Implementation Registries and the Tools for MODS pages and would like to add any new projects/tools that are currently available to the community. If you would like your projects/tools to be included, please supply information for each category in the MODS Implementation Registry and/or Tools for MODS page , and your projects/tools will be added to the registry. For MADS projects, please supply information for each category in the MADS Implementation registry .
3749	Yes	Here is the big idea from the big thing that I have been working on for a long time, using only the ten hundred most used words, just like in Up-Goer Five : This paper explains the two things we should do about search. Some serious people think that search should help people who talk get their words to other people. Other serious people think that the people who offer search talk for themselves and we should leave these people alone. All of these serious people are wrong, because the most important thing about search is that search helps you find things. Not someone else. You, and also me and everyone. It’s good when we can find things because it means we can learn, which is even more important than helping the people who talk or the people who offer search. There are so many things we could look at that we need help to sort through them. So the first thing we should do about search is that we should usually leave the people who offer search alone so they will keep on helping us find things. Not always, because maybe sometimes the people who offer search will lie to us about what things there are or where those things are. That’s bad because it makes it hard for us to find things. So the second thing we should do about search is not let the people who offer search lie to us like that. It’s important to think carefully about what it means to say the people who offer search “lied.” Sometimes the thing you want to find and the thing I want to find aren’t the same. I’m not wrong and you’re not wrong. We just want to read different things. There has to be room for us not to agree on what things are best, which means there also has to be room for the people who offer search to guess at what you and I want when we search. So a search answer isn’t a lie just because the thing it suggests isn’t the thing someone else wanted it to suggest. It’s only when the people who offer search really believe you’re looking for something and decide to show you something else instead that it’s a lie. When they do that, it’s right to be angry at them and we should make them stop lying. These two things we should do about search also give answers to other questions about search. One of them is whether the people who offer search should be able to tell you about things even when the people who own those things don’t want them to? Yes, because telling you about a thing isn’t the same as giving you the thing. No one owns the facts about where things are, even when someone owns those things. Search’s job is to help you find things, not to help the people who own the things. This is still being nice to the people who own things because once you find a thing, you can talk to the person who owns the thing and you can only take it from them if they let you buy it. There will be much more soon, I promise. (With help from the thing that helps make sure you really do say only the ten hundred most used words.) 
3750	Yes	Today I found the following resources and bookmarked them on Delicious . Boundless – Free Textbooks Boundless helps students learn better by connecting them with the wealth of high quality, openly licensed, free educational content, as well as the tools they need to succeed. Digest powered by RSS Digest The post Bookmarks for January 25, 2013 appeared first on What I Learned Today... . Related posts: CA Law to Produce Open Source Textbooks NFAIS: Miles Conrad Lecture What you can learn today 
3751	Yes	The Evergreen Oversight Board is seeking nominations to fill four seats on the Board for a three-year term. Please see http://www.evergreen-ils.org/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=governance:structure   for further information on the Oversight Board responsibilities and current roster. The terms will begin after the 2013 Evergreen International Conference. If you are interested in serving or would like to nominate someone to serve, please send an email to Kathy Lussier at klussier@masslnc.org or to Steve Wills at swills@beyond-print.com. 
3752	Yes	 It#39;s been a warm week here in the Fort. The snow is gone and the ground is a bit muddy. Wednesday, I rode my bike to the Pineridge Natural Area trailhead at Cottonwood Glen Park with the intent of running, but found the trail closed. I appreciate that the City is looking out for its trails, but was nonetheless a bit disappointed. Is it open today? I#39;d probably have to call to find out. If only there was something like a live StreetView so I could check if the gate is open or closed... Which reminds me that last June I saw a Google StreetView car coming out of the parking lot at the south end of Overland Drive as I came down the Pineridge trail and through the gate. I reported at the time : The sweaty guy in black with the blurry face running down from Pineridge in a future Street View update? Me. So I checked and last summer#39;s imagery is now live (I#39;m not sure when it was updated – my neighborhood#39;s imagery is from August, and probably wasn#39;t the last to be driven, so maybe only quite recently). The sweaty closeups of me are mercifully omitted (Overland dead ends here and there must have been double coverage as the car drove in and back out) but I am clearly visible walking back to my bike as the StreetView car leaves. Oh, and I have my Twitter archive, too, which is how I tracked down that old post. 
3753	Yes	The law is such an idiot when it comes to the internet. You can hardly expect better, since it was written in prehistoric times and is being maintained by people who lack many clues. And so to discuss crime and Aaron Swartz , it's useful to distance ourselves from definitions of crime that involve legality. There's a lot happening on the internet that's completely legal and very criminal, and there's also rampant illegality that should't be considered a crime. Crime is really about upsetting or undermining a social construct. Stealing violates our social construct of property. Assault, murder, or hurting people in any way violates our mutual compact to live and let live. Social constructs vary in their utility and their generality. The most broadly useful get codified into laws. Some of the others do, too. When circumstances change, some of the social constructs need to be set aside and new ones constructed. We're left with moral calculus. Here's my definition of moral calculus: it's anything you can't explain to an 8 year old about right and wrong, because the 8 year old isn't corrupt enough to believe it. It's an adult's set of excuses for doing or not doing the right thing. We need these excuses because our world is imperfect. My first conversation with Aaron Swartz had me playing a "good cop" role. I needed to explain to Aaron how some of his mass-downloading was getting people really upset and could have negative consequences for the things he was trying to accomplish. If he would just ask, I told him, he could have an account for an API that DIDN'T crash to smithereens when asked for millions of records. And people were working really hard to make the information he wanted free, it just needed some years to make sure the machinery wouldn't collapse. Aaron sounded embarrassed. I sounded embarrassed. I told him stories about I had once crashed Harvard's library system while doing some tiny little tests. Was that a crime? It wasn't MY bug. Maybe Harvard lost use of its catalog for a few hours in the middle of the night was that such a big deal? I've also fixed crashes in the middle of the night. Believe me, you don't feel very charitable about the idiots who attack your system. The IP addresses usually say they're from Russia or India or China, but 99% of the time they're bots looking for something you don't have, so you make sure your system is robust enough to deal with some nasty tickles, and you go home and sleep soundly. And apparently that's what happened to the folks at JSTOR when Aaron started his systematic downloading aimed at them. So let me tell you a bit about JSTOR. JSTOR is a non-profit organization whose mission is to make scholarly information available in digital form, not just today, but into the future. And they do what they do very well. Almost too well. I had a business developing hyperlinking technology for libraries. The links to JSTOR worked quite well. There was no crashing of THEIR system when I reverse-engineered it. But they also took a legal stance that in order to link to them you had to have a legal agreement. I thought it was dumb, but they insisted on rigorous testing of my links before officially letting my system link to theirs. The result was better linking that benefitted everyone. JSTOR's business model is to charge subscription fees to libraries to enable access to the articles they've digitized. Part of the fees are passed to their journal-publishing partners. And they make assurances to the partners that the intellectual property rights in these journals will be not be compromised. Their nightmare is that some third-world hacker will download all the technical articles and make them available in regions where it might be difficult for JSTOR and their publishing partners to assert their copyrights. So of course JSTOR noticed Aaron's downloading articles and blocked the IP address he was using. Most likely that block affected lots of other people. And they contacted the MIT library to find the source of the mass downloading. Dealing with this kind of thing would have been a routine matter for both JSTOR and MIT Library. It's a common occurrence that someone acquires a proxy-server password from a friend and proceeds to download some journal they need for their research someplace that can't afford its own deluxe JSTOR subscription. So Aaron's first crime in the JSTOR affair was that his actions resulted in the loss of access to JSTOR for some part of the MIT community and loss of productivity at JSTOR and MIT Library. That's inconsiderate, but not illegal. Both MIT and JSTOR had legal obligations to do what they did. Aaron was just using guest access at MIT, so he wasn't bound by any institutional terms of service. And his robot wasn't reading JSTOR's website terms and condition. Aaron didn't stop his downloading when MIT and JSTOR cut him off, alas. I think he was having too much fun eluding his pursuers. He didn't have to do anything terribly sophisticated, but it would have driven the network administrators crazy. There's nothing worse than having a hidden agent on your computer or on your network. Because even if it's not going anywhere it's not allowed to go, if you don't know where it is or what it's doing, you suspect the worst. You start doubting everything, and everyone, and you can lose your sanity. So that was Aaron's second crime. Diving people crazy via self-doubt is a crime in my book. But not illegal. But why the reasonably good non-profit JSTOR? Why not attack Elsevier or some other for-alotta-profit publisher? My guess that Aaron's interest in JSTOR was its trove of public-domain articles. Once he had possession of the public domain articles, Aaron could commit a perfectly legal crime. He could distribute the digitized public-domain articles on the internet, for free. Executing a hack of the legal code was in character for Aaron, he had done it successfully with PACER. While it's most likely legal, "liberating" JSTOR's public domain collection would be Aaron's crime number three, because it undermines an accepted social construct. It doesn't seem wrong to me for JSTOR to recover its digitization and distribution costs by charging willing customers for access. But there's an opposing argument that this information is part of our heritage and that it's immoral to deny people access to information they need, just because you're poor or you don't have connections to a fancy institution of higher learning, or you live in a country that struggles with subsistence or because you're only 13 years old. Those who build on the public domain have a special obligation to respect Tim O'Reilly's "create more value than you capture" rule. It seems that JSTOR has accepted to moral burden of this argument. It's taken important steps to make its public domain corpus available to everyone. The great thing about moral calculus is that you can change it. The fourth and final crime of Aaron Swartz was to commit suicide. That's the crime we're most angry about. My last conversation with Aaron Swartz was at the SOPA protest in Manhattan a year ago. I congratulated him on the fruits of his activism. I told him about Unglue.it and our plans to make ebooks free to the world with crowdfunding. He loved the idea, and made me promise to let him know how it went. It's going ok, Aaron, but we could really use some help. OK Go's  @damienkulash sings at #aaronswnyc CC BY-NC-SA by Schwartzray 
3754	Yes	 An NDIIPP staff member listens to questions about personal digital archiving. At our personal digital archiving events, we get various questions about scanning family photos, slides, negatives and film. Questions like:  What type of scanner should I use? What resolution should I use ? How can I scan negatives? While we’ve focused on developing tips and resources for saving personal digital materials created with software and hardware, we recognize that individuals have the both analog and digital materials and are looking for guidance on how to deal with both. If you’re interested in converting your personal collections of photos or documents to digital files, you have two options. One, you can scan your own materials (or DIY). Two, you can outsource or use a scanning service to do it for you. Do It Yourself On our personal digital archiving scanning handout (PDF), we provide some basic steps about digitizing photos, documents and slides using a personal scanner.  This handout is a step-by-step overview touching on preparing the scanner and items, saving scanned items and access and storage tips. As always, when you’re working with your own hardware, consult your scanner’s manual for more specific information. We also use this blog as an opportunity to informally share with you more detailed tips about scanning your photos or documents.  Barry Wheeler wrote excellent posts, describing scanning resolutions and scanner settings: What resolution should I use, part 1 and part 2 .  He does a great job explaining the how and why of the scanning process. scanner, by user npslibrarian, on flickr If you plan to embark on a scanning project at some point in the future, there are some resources to help you protect your family collections in the meantime. Most of this advice is preventive and includes low-levels of effort for caring and storing your collections. I’ve found that ALA’s Preservation Week Resource List points to web-based information by format, which is quite handy if you’re looking for starting points.   Use a Scanning Service As we’ve mentioned before, we can’t recommend personal archiving commercial services or tools. But if I was choosing a service to digitize my personal collection, these are some factors I would take into consideration based on what’s important to me. Cost Digitizing your collection is an investment.  How much are you willing to invest may drive your decision about choosing a service. A quick way to determine costs is to estimate the size of your collection or number of items and find out the service’s price per scan. This will give you a rough idea of the cost. Aside from the cost of the service, there is also a “hidden” cost of storing your digital files now and in the future. You should have at least two copies of your archive on your choice of media (computer, CD/DVD, external hard drive or cloud). Think about what long-term storage options you’re most comfortable with and look into how much those storage medium cost too.  You may find the handout How Long Will Digital Storage Media Last? (PDF) helpful when thinking about which storage to choose. Scanning resolution What resolution will the images be scanned at? Commercial scanning resolutions can range from 300 dpi ( dots per inch ) to 3000 dpi, depending on the type of material scanned.  The higher the dpi, the larger the file, the more storage (on external media, optical or cloud) it requires. The service may offer different resolution options so think about what you want to do with your scanned materials, particularly the photos. If you’re interested in sharing them, uploading them to photo sharing sites or printing them out, the resolution matters.  For example, if you’ll print photos at 4”x6” and 5”x7”, they can be scanned at 300 dpi. Larger print sizes, like 8″x10″ can be scanned at 600 dpi or greater. If you’re most concerned with saving them long-term, the highest-quality setting may be your best option. Format What file format will your converted materials will be delivered in? For photographs, JPEG ( .jpg ) and TIFF ( .tif ) are the standard file formats most commercial services use for conversion.  Generally, the JPEG format is a long-term consumer-level storage format, and it is also good for viewing software, uploading to photo sharing sites, or emailing. TIFF is generally thought of as a good long-term archival format when file size is not a consideration. TIFF files uncompressed and are larger than JPEGs, and therefore quite large. Again, the larger the file, the more storage space they require. Scanned documents can be saved as TIFFs or PDFs ( .pdf ). Both formats are portable and accessible. PDFs enable smaller file size versus TIFF.   There are arguments for the merits of using either for long-term access, so it may come down to which format you’re more familiar working with or have knowledge about. Storage and Access Once your collection is converted, how does the service deliver your digital files? Does it return them on CD’s or DVD’s, external drives, or offer copies in the cloud?  Does it provide you with the option of copies on multiple storage media? Some services now provide online access for photos, which may allow you to share and download them.  Keep in mind that saving the only copy of your photos on photo sharing sites is not a best practice. Care and Handling How does the company care for and handle your materials? Does it restore old, fragile or damaged photos, documents or film? Careless handling during the conversion process could lead to damage of your originals. Another thing to think about is if you’ll ship your collection to the service. There are no guarantees of safety or security with mailing services. If this is a concern, look into local scanning services where you can drop off your materials instead of shipping them. Like I said, these are the factors I would take into consideration when choosing a scanning service.  Converting your family collections to into digital formats is a transition or preparation step to managing your entire personal digital archive.  Those digital files, along with any personal born-digital materials, can then be cared for long-term in the same way. Updated 1/28/13: fixed typos 
3755	Yes	Streaming, for all to see hear! Part One Video streaming by Ustream Part Two Video streaming by Ustream 
3756	Yes	 Hi all — as the new THATCamp Coordinator, I’m busily converting thatcamp.org from a site dedicated to the THATCamps held at the Center for History and New Media to a site about the global THATCamp movement, with help for organizers, participants, and lemurs. Please pardon our dust as URLs change at my whim, content appears and disappears with the tides, and information architects everywhere have a collective seizure. 
3757	Yes	 Tim Sherratt, organizer of THATCamp Canberra , asked me to say a few words when the event commenced. Here’s the written version: *** THATCamp, like Fortune, favors the bold. So congratulations to you on boldly going where only a few have gone before, exploring a new type of academic conference. It can be a bit disconcerting for both organizers and participants, but that’s part of the fun: who wants a flat roller coaster? Here are the ground rules for THATCamp, as beautifully expressed by Tom Scheinfeldt: THATCamp is fun, productive, and collegial. It’s fun, which means you are enjoined to be creative, witty, and above all short: it’s productive, which means that while we do hope you’ll have many wonderful conversations today, we also hope you’ll take the opportunity to begin writing articles, begin writing code, begin planning events, takeovers, partnerships, and love-ins. Finally, it’s collegial: we’re here not to compete but to collaborate, to meet amazing people who are, like us, devoted to the idea that ideas can make a difference, that it is not only technology but also the study and practice of humanity can lead to the betterment of humanity, and that the only thing worse than an impoverished mind is an impoverished heart. As Mita Williams memorably put it after attending Great Lakes THATCamp , “An unconference runs on love. “ And the proof of that is the careful genius of Tim Sherratt ; only the separation of continents could prevent me from embarrassing him with my fervent admiration. 
3758	Yes	 I’ve recently come to this sobering realization: Twitter has made me a bit lazy. I’m so used to reaching an immediate audience that way (and it’s not a negligible one; the THATCamp Twitter account has nearly 700 followers, and I have somewhere north of 3000 (don’t be too impressed; I’m sure many of them are bots and spammers). Announcements I tweet often get retweeted, and then they make it into Digital Humanities Now, and then I’m left with the comforting feeling that what I’ve said has been heard. I’ve also been known to blog and to post announcements to HASTAC and HUMANIST and H-NET , but at that point I tend to shut my computer and call it a day. But there’s a pressing need, I’ve realized, to reach an audience who does not frequent those digital halls. The BootCamp fellowship program is specifically designed for the benefit of “analog” humanists as well as digital humanists; the program is meant to introduce people who don’t necessarily have a great deal of digital expertise to people who do, to the possibilities of what computers can do to further and enrich the humanities, and, most importantly, to their own capacity to learn digital skills. Making things more difficult is the fact that THATCamp is not only interdisciplinary but interprofessional: we can’t just post an announcement in the Publications of the Modern Language Association and forget about it. We want to reach philosophers, historians, archaeologists, classicists, art historians, cultural critics, religious historians and theorists, and everyone like that there, but we also want to reach librarians, archivists, art museum staff, K-12 educators, and, well, just about anyone we can get our hands on. To that end, I’m planning a mass physical mailing sometime in the next couple of months of a brochure describing THATCamp and the BootCamp fellowship program. But until that goes out, perhaps those of you who are reading this would consider e-mailing your departments, your co-workers, and your Aunt Nancy who works in the Analogville County Library to let them know that they’ve got as good a chance at anyone at a $500 fellowship that will help defray their travel costs to a THATCamp near them, or even not so near them. I’ve provided some sample text below. Please, as they say, disseminate widely. *** The Humanities And Technology Camp (THATCamp): Fellowships available THATCamp , The Humanities And Technology Camp, is a free, open, interdisciplinary “unconference” where humanists and technologists meet to work together for the common good. Through the generosity of the Mellon Foundation, the Council on Library and Information Resources, and the Kress Foundation, $500 (USD) fellowships are available to academics in the humanities, librarians and archivists, and art museum professionals of all ranks and fields to help defray the cost of traveling to a THATCamp for the purpose of attending both THATCamp and an accompanying “BootCamp” workshop series. BootCamp workshops are free, introductory workshops held at THATCamp that will enable humanists to begin acquiring digital skills that can help further humanities study: examples might include text encoding, data visualization and mapping, and website development. Applications for BootCamp fellowships to THATCamps across the United States, Europe, and Australia are continually accepted; graduate students are particularly encouraged to apply. No advanced computing skills are necessary. Learn more about BootCamp workshops and apply for a BootCamp fellowship at thatcamp.org/fellowships . Note that while not everyone is eligible for a fellowship, everyone is eligible to come to THATCamp: find an upcoming THATCamp near you by visiting thatcamp.org and learn more about THATCamp at thatcamp.org/about . E-mail info@thatcamp.org with any questions. *** 
3759	Yes	 UPDATE: All THATCamp themes now come with a template that’ll automatically generate a Campers page. Just make a page called “Campers” or “Participants” or the like, then go into Edit or Quick Edit and set its template to “Campers.” For those of you who are administering hosted THATCamp sites on thatcamp.org , I’ve just installed a plugin called “WordPress Users” that’ll let you create biography pages for people who have registered for your THATCamp and a “Campers” page that lists them all. It’s called “ WordPress Users ,” and it will work with any theme. When you activate it, the plugin will add a “WordPress Settings” choice to the “Settings” menu in your administration panel: When you click on “WordPress Users,” you’ll be given a number of options that will let you configure how the profile pages and the “Campers” page look: You’ll need to create a page called “Campers” or “Participants” or “Registrants” or something similar and enter its ID number on the screen pictured above to automatically generate a list of people who are registered for your THATCamp. To find the page’s ID number, click on “Pages” in the admin panel and hover over the title of the page you want to use as your Campers page. The URL will contain the ID number, listed as e.g. “post=56″. With the settings shown above, you’ll generate a “Campers” page that looks something like this (using the THATCamp Furvious theme — again, the plugin works with all themes): You can play with the options till you’re happy with how it looks, and you can probably also change the look and feel a bit by using the already-installed “Edit CSS” plugin. Happy camping! (It had to be said sometime.) 
3760	Yes	 Phew, what a year for THATCamp. In 2010, there’ve been seventeen, yes seventeen , THATCamps, and there are eighteen more THATCamps planned so far for 2011, including THATCamp Southern California , which is just around the corner. Much farther out are the ones most recently registered: THATCamp New York (yes! finally!), THATCamp Montréal, THATCamp NCPH at the National Council on Public History meeting in Pensacola, FL, THATCamp University of Western Ontario, THATCamp Switzerland, and THATCamp Saigon — which last will be our first THATCamp in Asia. If you’re interested in helping out with any of those, e-mail info@thatcamp.org or contact the organizer directly at the e-mail address listed in the registry . There are a few things about this spate of THATCamps in 2010 that I find particularly awesome. First, it’s international . Working with THATCamp has put me in touch with an international community that I was simply closed off from before. This year, I helped to translate THATCamp Paris’s Digital Humanities Manifesto , I installed a translation plugin on thatcamp.org , and I am planning to teach a WordPress workshop at THATCamp Florence in the spring. And, of course, I spoke (virtually) at THATCamp Canberra: Second, scholarly associations are taking notice ; there’s an electricity about a THATCamp that’s simply missing from most annual meetings, and I’ve had plenty of correspondence this year with people on program committees who want to know how to bring some unconference energy to their conference. Whether or not that’s possible is another question — in some ways I think that a conference and an unconference might be as mutually exclusive as they sound — but what I do think is entirely possible and indeed necessary is for scholars to open up, in more ways than one. To speak with people in other disciplines and other professions, to publish hastily and informally on the free web, to be smart while wearing shorts and flip-flops, to admit ignorance and ask for help, to crack jokes, to make friends and make things. THATCamp is helping with all of that. Speaking of admitting ignorance, another terrific thing we’ve seen with THATCamps in 2010 has been the addition of the “BootCamp” workshops , which are helping in a small way to teach humanists and their ilk new digital skills . What’s pretty amazing about that is that all of those workshops have been free to attend, and almost all of them have been organized and taught by people who were paid little or nothing for doing so, for the simple purpose of sharing knowledge. And that’s the fourth, last, and by far most awesome thing about all these THATCamps: the passionate volunteers who did all the work of putting them together (and it’s no small amount of work, let’s be clear about that). Ave, THATCamp organizers. Hail to you, blithe spirits. We salute you. Here is a LOLpuppy for you. 
3761	Yes	 I’ve been shamefully lax about blogging on thatcamp.org — I can’t think why. In any case, I’ve set myself some firm deadlines (and startlines), so you can expect to see more here from now on. I’m also going to post copies of THATCamp News here as well as e-mails that I’ve sent to the THATCamp organizers e-mail list (which is populated by those who have registered a THATCamp). Here’s one such e-mail below about changes in the THATCamp fellowship program, deprecation of the term “BootCamp,” and a couple of other issues. *** Hi THATCamp organizers, I wanted to alert you to a couple of changes in the fellowship program. First of all, I’m deprecating the “BootCamp” terminology, because it winds up causing confusion about whether “BootCamp” is a separate event from “THATCamp.” I’m recommending the more generic term “workshops” now, and have changed the text on the main thatcamp.org site to reflect that. This is of course a recommendation only, so if you’ve been calling it “BootCamp” on your site, you can continue doing that if you like. Second, we’re offering both more and fewer fellowships now, depending on how you look at it. We have awarded (or rather are shortly about to award) all remaning available Kress fellowships to museum professionals and students, so the only fellowship funder is now the Mellon foundation. However, due largely to an excellent suggestion by THATCamp New England organizer Lincoln Mullen, we are offering four additional $250 fellowships per THATCamp in addition to the current number of four $500 fellowships. The idea is that so many people are relatively local to THATCamp, some don’t need as much as $500 for travel money, so we’re going to see whether making smaller amounts available is useful for people. These can all be called “Mellon THATCamp Fellowships” now, should you need a name for them. I’ve updated the page at thatcamp.org/fellowships with current information. In general, I do want to figure out various ways to attract more fellowship applicants, as well, so let me know if you have ideas on that score. I am going to start automatically adding a page to new THATCamp sites with a description of the fellowship program and prominent link to the fellowship application, for instance, and will start providing sample e-mail templates for organizers that should help you publicize both your THATCamp and the fellowship program, but let me know whatever else you think might work. We’re also going to start mailing (yes, by snail! well, not literally) a publicity kit with things like posters and stickers (and possibly bookmarks, thanks to an excellent idea by THATCamp Bay Area organizer Scott McGinnis) to new THATCamp organizers, so unless your THATCamp is happening in September or early October, keep an eye out for that. Let me know if you have questions. Thanks, as always, for all the hard work you do, for no other reason than that it’s a bloody good idea to get people together to learn from one another once in awhile. Cheers, Amanda 
3762	Yes	 Photo by cogdogblog THATCamp is looking to create a short piece that documents the history of THATCamp, interviews from participants, short footage from various THATCamps from around the world, and the issues surrounding developing and creating unconferences. In the spirit of THATCamp, we’d like to crowdsource part of the film, and get a good sense of different locations where THATCamps occur, different opinions about THATCamp as a phenomenon, different methods used to organize different Camps, etc. Here are some ways you can contribute to THATCamp Documentary: Interview yourself: Preferred length: 5 minutes Preferred device: Macintosh webcam. Submission via Vimeo ( www.vimeo.com/thatcamp ) or youtube ( www.youtube.com/thatcamp ). Tag your videos with “thatcamp” and “documentary” Some Questions (pick two or three to focus on) Do you consider yourself a THATCamp junkie? What is the funniest thing that ever happened to you at THATCamp? How has THATCamp changed your life? Bitch about THATCamp. Where were you when you first heard about THATCamp? At your first THATCamp, what was the biggest surprise? Who’s the weirdest person you met at THATCamp? Does THATCamp rely too much on Twitter? Describe the typical THATCamper. Think of your own question and answer it. Interview another person. Same parameters and questions as above, but you interview someone else. Get a short amount of footage from a real THATCamp that you attend. Length: 5 minutes Preferred device: iPhone Submission via vimeo or youtube as above. Content: Intriguing or bizzare sessions. 1 minute interviews with campers answering the question: “What does THATCamp mean to me?” Hacking sessions. Move from one session to another simultaneous one and record your experience. Montage/remix/hack/experiment: What does it mean to represent a THATCamp unconference on film? **Please note that not every piece of footage submitted will make it into THATCamp Documentary. However, we will archive all footage sent to us on a website or in an outtakes video created alongside THATCamp Documentary. 
3763	Yes	 Since yesterday, the digital humanities blogotwittersphere has been discussing a post by digital marketer Mitch Joel somewhat misleadingly titled “ The Death of the Unconference. ” (Reminds me a bit of famed literary critic Harold Bloom, who apparently also likes to pronounce things dead .) Joel writes, “I was a massive proponent of the unconference movement (I still am!), but that word has been used so poorly by so many groups that it seems to have all but disappeared.” I’ve had a most instructive Google Alert on “unconference” for awhile now, which has taught me that there’s an unconference on Christianity , an unconference on real estate , and an unconference on coworking . I like to tweet these unconferences from the THATCamp account when I find them, just to show support from one unconference to another, and to remind myself that it’s not just coders and librarians and digital humanists engaging in “mob rule learning,” as the title of the recent book has it. But that Google alert has also taught me that Mitch Joel may have a point: the term “unconference” is sometimes used in cases where it’s hard to see what’s so “un” about the conference. I specifically remember deciding not to tweet the otherwise intriguing-sounding “Indigenous Innovation Unconference” when I saw how much they were emphasizing their six eminent speakers and how little they were emphasizing any kind of participant-driven program. Similarly, plenty of events that call themselves unconferences seem to have whole slews of presentations , which strikes me as odd. Early on in my position as THATCamp Coordinator I was surprised to realize that I would occasionally have to enforce — not just explain — the unconference “rules,” and that’s been even more the case as THATCamp and digital humanities general have grown. Some have wanted to limit THATCamp attendance to members of their own community, some have wanted to charge registration fees, some have wanted to name a facilitator and/or a note-taker for every session, some have wanted to have presentations and keynote speakers, some have wanted to vote on sessions online beforehand rather than in the first session on the first morning, and so on and so forth. Some of these ideas made me uncomfortable — they seemed rather unTHATCampy — but then the idea of saying yes or no to such ideas and determining what is or is not THATCampy also made me uncomfortable. Suffice it to say that when I first began, I would have entirely agreed with Timothy Burke’s impassioned declaration that “‘Do as thou wilt’ and ‘Ur doing it wrong’ don’t add up,” but these days I’m more willing to take the latter position. That being said, I hope that the rules we (and in some cases I) have set up for THATCamp, the rules I’m willing to be Madame Enforcer about, are rules that allow the kind of fluidity Timothy wants: “Improvisation has signal, it has pattern, it has structure, it has plans, but it also has the freedom to say or play what it seems right to say or play at that moment. Whatever works is what I want to be free to do … ” You bet. And of course improvisation has rules. Always say yes. Give the other guy a turn to solo and don’t step all over him. Put all the leftovers into the pasta except the pudding. The rules of THATCamp, ideally, are like that, or like the rules of copyleft . They are rules that require you to be free. In fact, one of the seminal texts of THATCamp is Tom Scheinfeldt’s “THATCamp Ground Rules” , in which Tom violently demands that THATCamp participants 1) have fun, 2) get some work done, and 3) be nice to each other. (Fascist.) We also developed some rules for THATCamp organizers, which, similarly, are pretty much rules that require you to be free: I agree that our THATCamp will be FREE or CHEAP to attend (registration fees of up to $30 USD are fine) OPEN to anyone who wishes to apply or register (no institutional, professional, or rank restrictions) INFORMAL and participatory (no presentations, papers, or demos longer than 5 minutes) PUBLIC on the open web (sessions can be blogged, twittered, photographed, recorded, and posted) SELF-ORGANIZING (no program committee: all participants are given a chance to help set the agenda, either before or during the unconference) As long as you adhere to those rules (and keep our logo in Whitney), you can pretty much do whatever you want at your THATCamp. I’m full of advice on planning a THATCamp and a little advice on going to a THATCamp , but you’re also free to ignore that. Mitch Joel gives a whole stern list on the topic of “Your conference is not an unconference if…” I’m glad to say that even according to his strict definition, THATCamp is an unconference. Long may it live. 
3764	Yes	 Thought I’d post a bit of history: the IRC (Internet Relay Channel) log from the first THATCamp in 2008 , presciently saved by Bess Sadler . We do still have a room called thatcamp on the IRC channel at irc.freenode.net , but Twitter has taken over much of the function that IRC then served. Do feel free to use the thatcamp IRC channel whenever you like! I’ve edited the log so that it can be more easily read, taking out all the lines about so-and-so leaving or joining the IRC. Enjoy. — Log opened Sat May 31 10:19:27 2008 10:19 lt; epistemographergt; just imagine if we were all piling on one collaborative spreadsheet 10:19 lt; asolovegt; so can whoever controls thatcampbot consider the room-specific IRC channels? 10:19 lt; thatcampbotgt; ok 10:20 lt; jgsmithgt; a wiki page for the schedule? 10:21 lt; thatcampbotgt; give me a sec to figure this out 10:21 lt; dancohengt; is it possible to simultaneously irc chat, twitter, blog, and podcast? I’m going to try. — Log opened Sat May 31 10:26:08 2008 10:29 lt; asolovegt; thatcamp450 for rdf discussion 10:30 lt; willynillsgt; about to start the text mining session 10:31 lt; DruidSmithgt; RDF… am curious if anyone is working with AJAX or JavaScript browsing and navigation of OWL ontologies 10:34 lt; willynillsgt; text analysis software: www.lib.uchicago.edu/efts/ARTFL/philologic/ 10:35 lt; willynillsgt; philomine: philologic.uchicago.edu/philomine/ 10:37 lt; dancohengt; in the text mining session in the lab (rm 462) 10:39 lt; dancohengt; sean takats is explaining CHNM’s upcoming NEH-funded text-mining project 10:40 lt; epistemographergt; Sean’s not a “better” historian, he’s a “different” kind of historian 10:40 lt; dchudgt; dancohen: hooray for funding 10:41 lt; bess_gt; the techies are having an impromptu “keeping the wheels on” meeting — sustainability from a technical point of view 10:42 lt; dancohengt; good thing we’re inside–just got a tornado watch alert from the fairfax messaging system, active until 10:30 tonight 10:42 lt; epistemographergt; yowza 10:42 lt; doug_knoxgt; RDF group talking about bibliographic data, citations, Zotero, data about museum/library objects 10:43 lt; willynillsgt; according sean: three aspects of text mining: locating or finding documents, automatically extracting data from documents (instead of manually reading), analysis of corpus 10:45 lt; willynillsgt; according to laura mandell: text mining can be used to identify terms of analysis not within your discipline 10:45 lt; matthewgaventagt; wow. really doesn’t LOOK like tornado weather (at least through my small window) 10:46 lt; jackflapsgt; it feels like it, though 10:48 lt; davelestergt; it’s great to see everyone on IRC! 10:51 lt; elligt; RDF: used to define relationships in restricted domains, perhaps more interesting. But movement in developing it is to make it applicable to broader and broader domains. 10:52 lt; bess_gt; davelester: I set up thatcampbot to record the channel. I’ll give you the logs afterwards. 10:52 lt; davelestergt; thanks bess_ 10:56 lt; asolovegt; can someone add thatcampbot to thatcamp450 10:56 lt; davelestergt; asolove++ great idea. can you do that bess_? 10:57 lt; willynillsgt; dan cohen: text mining tools need to useful for historians and may not be 10:58 lt; willynillsgt; text mining tasks: summarization, classification, extractions 10:59 lt; bess_gt; asolove and davelester : I’ll give it a shot 10:59 lt; bess_gt; asolove and davelester : I’ll get to it on the break, I’m in the middle of a good conversation 10:59 lt; davelestergt; np 11:03 lt; asolovegt; ok thanks 11:06 lt; karindalzielgt; I will be posting the URL’s we are talking about on del.icio.us with tag thatcamp 11:07 lt; jackflapsgt; I’m going to start doing that for the RDF session as well 11:10 lt; willynillsgt; text mining does more than speed up historical thought; it should give us a new level of comprehension 11:11 lt; cliowebgt; FYI – I updated the schedule, so that should be current based on the last change we tried to implement downstairs 11:11 lt; cliowebgt; thanks to everyone for patience and input 11:11 lt; cliowebgt; schedule at thatcamp.org/schedule/ 11:12 lt; dancohengt; clioweb: thanks–you did a great job with the schedule; hard to optimize something that complicated 11:12 lt; cliowebgt; I think it worked out well 11:13 lt; davelestergt; clioweb++ 11:14 lt; cliowebgt; people should feel free to use other rooms and spaces for ad hoc meetings 11:20 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Karin, is there any chance you could let us use your wiki? 11:25 lt; karindalzielgt; ben – sure, pass is karin 11:25 lt; karindalzielgt; I’ll clean up later 11:29 lt; dancohengt; www.dancohen.org/2006/08/08/mapping-what-americans-did-on-september-11/ 11:30 lt; dancohengt; my best effort on text mining + geolocation 11:32 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Karin, can you paste the URL? 11:35 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Got it 11:35 lt; davelestergt; could people post their session notes on the blog? that’d be great 11:35 lt; dancohengt; so far, been able to blog, tweet, and irc chat all at once; adding in the podcasting might be hard… 11:36 lt; DruidSmithgt; There was a GREAT discussion of technology and sustainability at EPA’s Science Forum last week – William McDonough, author of The Cradle to Cradle Revolution – www.amazon.com/Cradle-Remaking-Way-Make-Things/dp/0865475873/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8amp;s=booksamp;qid=1212248155amp;sr=8-1 11:37 lt; davelestergt; dancohen: I’d love to see a live digital campus 11:37 lt; epistemographergt; me too – do it, Dan 11:37 lt; karindalzielgt; actually, just set up a new wiki www.nirak.net/thatcamp/pmwiki.php?n=Main.HomePage 11:37 lt; dancohengt; davelester: tom and I were thinking of doing it 11:37 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Oh. Sweet! 11:38 lt; dancohengt; anyone mind if I look like I’m manning a McDonald’s drive-thru? 11:38 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Well, I need a place to put the DorkShorts material now, so I’ll get started with Karin’s 11:38 lt; davelestergt; there’s already a whiteboard in the main room for dork shorts with a list of names 11:38 lt; karindalzielgt; feel free to do whatever you want there 11:43 lt; willynillsgt; Bill: text mining, given abundant texts, can ask questions about simultaneity and co-incidence. 11:43 lt; sgilliesgt; epiphany! 11:44 lt; DruidSmithgt; add geotagging to the mix and you also have geo-enabled text mining 11:45 lt; DruidSmithgt; and temporal coincidence / simultaneity? 11:50 lt; asolovegt; what is the method for getting slides in to Dork Shorts? 11:51 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Karin, can you enable uploads on the wiki? www.nirak.net/thatcamp/pmwiki.php?n=PmWiki.Uploads 11:52 lt; foundhistorygt; asolove … thumbdrive? 11:53 lt; asolovegt; hmm 11:53 lt; asolovegt; I can just download from email 11:53 lt; foundhistorygt; if that works. what kind of slides? ppt? keynote? 11:53 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Will we be able to hook up the projector to our own laptops? 11:53 lt; asolovegt; it’s actually just xul 11:54 lt; foundhistorygt; oh 11:54 lt; foundhistorygt; np 11:54 lt; foundhistorygt; ben… that’s going to be tough 11:54 lt; foundhistorygt; we’re going to be pretty pressed for time 11:54 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Okay — wiki it is 11:54 lt; foundhistorygt; but we could add another dork shorts session maybe 11:55 lt; sgilliesgt; session 1 made me think of “glass house” 11:56 lt; foundhistorygt; Lunch is served!!! 11:56 lt; foundhistorygt; and Dork Shorts is starting! 12:00 lt; sgilliesgt; great adhoc session in 402. thanks, everybody 12:13 lt; karindalzielgt; lunch is teh awesome. Great spreat, guys!! 12:22 lt; sgilliesgt; syndication architecture ++ 12:29 lt; asolovegt; lunch was excellent 12:33 lt; epistemographergt; omeka in action: exhibitions.nypl.org/eminent/ 12:37 lt; dancohengt; enjoying the dork shorts 12:39 lt; bess__gt; oooh, pretty! typographia 12:41 lt; bess__gt; can anyone read the url? 12:42 lt; jackflapsgt; www4.ncsu.edu/~dmrieder/typographia 12:42 lt; jeanne_kramer-smgt; www4.ncsu.edu/~dmrieder/typographia 12:47 -!- Netsplit calvino.freenode.net lt;-gt; irc.freenode.net quits: asolove, karindalziel, bess__, bess_, matthewgaventa, epistemographer, jgsmith, dancohen, sgillies 12:53 -!- Netsplit over, joins: dancohen 12:53 -!- Netsplit over, joins: sgillies 12:54 -!- Netsplit over, joins: epistemographer 12:55 -!- Netsplit over, joins: bess_ 12:58 lt; travisgt; Collaborative annotation: ecomma.cwrl.utexas.edu/0.2.0/ 13:02 lt; tjowensgt; # thatcamp401 13:02 lt; tjowensgt; doh 13:06 lt; dancohengt; In session on search, listening to Karin Dalziel show some interesting, wide-ranging examples. 13:07 lt; sgilliesgt; i’d never seen etsy 13:07 lt; sgilliesgt; nice 13:08 lt; bess_gt; etsy++ 13:10 lt; bess_gt; All of the stuff Karin’s talking about is also available at www.nirak.net/2008/05/29/alternative-search-analyzing-document/ 13:13 lt; tjowensgt; learning about iggy pop’s beat down 13:14 lt; sgilliesgt; etsy beer can hat: www.etsy.com/view_listing.php?listing_id=10966874 13:14 lt; jackflapsgt; cleveland rocks 13:16 lt; davelestergt; tinyurl.com/3cmfdy 13:17 lt; dancohengt; davelester: thanks, dave. 13:17 lt; tjowensgt; that better not be atsly 13:17 lt; bess_gt; Josh G. says “It’s all about leveraging solipsism.” Love it! 13:17 lt; asolovegt; that’s cruel 13:33 lt; jeanne_kramer-smgt; www.gilderlehrman.org/collection/battlelines/chapter3/chapter3_1a.html 13:36 lt; erazlogogt; crowdsource transcribing first, then present like this: dohistory.org/diary/exercises/lens/index.html 13:41 lt; davelestergt; twitter is down again? boo 13:44 lt; asolovegt; the rain must have gotten it 13:46 lt; bess_gt; omg the rain! 13:46 lt; jackflapsgt; twitter’s a little slow 13:46 lt; jackflapsgt; if you poke at it with sticks a little it eventually loads 14:06 lt; epistemographergt; we got crazy geeky in the Search session 14:12 lt; jeanne_kramer-smgt; hoping that folks might post what was discussed in the Search session on the wiki… 14:14 lt; nowviskiegt; lisa spiro takes kick-ass notes and will be sharing a summary of the “research methods” session on the blog. 15:00 lt; epistemographergt; quick call out: what’s being talked about in the sessions people are in? 15:01 lt; epistemographergt; in “Museums” we’re talking about the difference between how museums, libraries and archives approach digita vs. physical issues 15:03 lt; jackflapsgt; in Games we’re talking about how to evaluate history-based video games based on their value as teaching tools 15:50 lt; dancohengt; www.zotero.org/download/dev/zotero-1.5a.sync1.xpi 15:51 lt; shekhargt; is patrick in here? 16:08 lt; dancohengt; sustainability has been moved to rm 450 16:11 lt; BenBrumfieldgt; Dorkshorts is nearly empty. We’ll probably wrap up early. 16:12 lt; davelestergt; aw 16:28 lt; elligt; open street maps project offers lots of potential for dh projects to create maps for their own purposes (historical, not street based, available) 16:37 lt; bess___gt; elli: would you please post any notes you have on historical applications for open street maps? I was sorry to miss that session. 16:38 lt; shekhargt; bess___: we’re not talking about historical maps in OSM… yet… 16:39 lt; shekhargt; openstreetmap.org 16:39 lt; elligt; bess_: I”ll do my best, 16:43 lt; elligt; Now we are discussing how you might use the technology to walk places and map traces of roads, settlements, battlegrounds, and use the OSM software to incorporate this information 16:45 lt; dancohengt; discussing sustainability models for zotero 16:46 lt; dancohengt; anyone who is not in rm 450 who has ideas, drop them into IRC or Twitter 16:46 lt; elligt; Mapping: freemap.in site with links to open source mapping software 16:49 lt; elligt; Mapping: Shekhar is showing a free map of Mumbai with historical layers overlaid from the freemap site. 17:00 lt; bess___gt; I’ve heard a bit about processing, but I had no idea how awesome it was. What a great session! 17:05 * shekhar just showed mumbai.freemap.in and the testing version of a zotero openstreetmap plugin web.mit.edu/shekhar/zotero-maps.xpi 19:30 lt; davelestergt; howdy all 19:34 lt; kerrigt; Hi Dave. Wish I was there. 19:35 lt; davelestergt; aw, maybe next year? 19:36 lt; kerrigt; Sounds like it has been great! 19:36 lt; kerrigt; Elli will surely debrief me when she returns. 19:37 lt; davelestergt; definitely 19:51 lt; cg_gt; # thatcamp port 7000 at GMU. 19:51 lt; cg_gt; # thatcamp port 7000 at GMU 21:45 lt; bess_gt; hello? 21:53 lt; karindalzielgt; hiya. I am just hanging out in here while working on a blog post. 22:03 lt; karindalzielgt; soooo….is everyone else exhausted, or is it just me? 22:21 lt; bess_gt; karindalziel: also exhausted 22:21 lt; bess_gt; karindalziel: it’s so great to meet you! We have a lot of the same research interests. 22:22 lt; karindalzielgt; I am somehow wired too. Brain is racing. Which is good! 22:22 lt; karindalzielgt; bess: Great to meet you too! 22:23 lt; karindalzielgt; I feel like I have SO much to learn. 22:23 lt; bess_gt; karindalziel: You might enjoy this paper: www.ualberta.ca/~sruecker/links/07_Ruecker_Pill_Identification.pdf 22:24 lt; bess_gt; It’s an interface I worked on while at U of Alberta. 22:24 lt; bess_gt; Stan Ruecker was the primary investigator, and if you don’t know his work you might also enjoy it… www.ualberta.ca/~sruecker/ 22:24 lt; karindalzielgt; cool- thanks! Something to read ont he plane ride home. 22:26 lt; karindalzielgt; Are you leading any discussions tomorrow? 22:26 lt; bess_gt; no, I don’t think so 22:26 lt; bess_gt; I plan to be an “active participant” in the omeka one, though! 22:27 lt; karindalzielgt; I can’t decide betwen that and interface design. So many tough choices. 22:27 lt; bess_gt; oh damn, did they schedule those across from each other? 22:28 * bess_ runs off to check the schedule 22:29 lt; bess_gt; Dammit, I want to attend every single one of the first sessions 22:30 lt; bess_gt; I mean the second session 22:30 lt; karindalzielgt; I know. :/ 22:30 lt; bess_gt; I’m sure all the first sessions will be great, too, but mashup is the only one for me. 22:30 lt; karindalzielgt; Hopefully people will blog their sessions/ 22:30 lt; bess_gt; but GIS, interface design, omeka, and bibliographic standards… I’m working on every one of those right now. 22:31 lt; karindalzielgt; I will go to management since it pertains most to my job. Unless I change my mind tomorrow morning. 22:31 lt; bess_gt; management? really? what kind of management? 22:32 lt; karindalzielgt; Project management.. lemme go find link 22:32 lt; karindalzielgt; thatcamp.org/2008/05/2-ideas/ 22:35 lt; karindalzielgt; geez, linking blog posts takes forever 22:36 lt; karindalzielgt; hi ben 22:41 lt; karindalzielgt; Done with THAT Camp day 1 recap 22:41 lt; karindalzielgt; www.nirak.net/2008/05/31/that-camp-day-1/ 22:41 lt; karindalzielgt; and with that, off to read for a bit before bed. *yawn* 22:41 lt; sgilliesgt; anybody else got a 5:11 flight from dulles and want to share a cab? lemme know 22:43 lt; karindalzielgt; hope I didn’t get anyone’s name wrong. 22:43 lt; sgilliesgt; good recap 22:43 lt; karindalzielgt; wow, you’re quick! 22:43 lt; karindalzielgt; ok, really going now. 22:44 lt; jeanne_ksgt; where is the recap? 22:45 lt; sgilliesgt; www.nirak.net/2008/05/31/that-camp-day-1/ 22:46 lt; jeanne_ksgt; thanks! 22:46 lt; sgilliesgt; see you all in the morning 22:53 lt; davelestergt; anyone in # thatcamp coming to the ‘hacking omeka’ session tomorrow? I’m still deciding what I want to show 22:55 lt; bess_gt; davelester: I’ll be there 22:55 lt; davelestergt; nice, I saw your tweet 22:56 lt; davelestergt; I’ll definitely show off the OAI-PMH ingestion plugin 22:56 lt; bess_gt; davelester: NYPL and UVA are both very interested in how we can bring digital repository objects into omeka exhibits. 22:56 lt; bess_gt; davelester: I’d also like some advice on how to get started writing omeka themes and plugins 22:57 lt; bess_gt; davelester: I think the more eyecandy themes we can provide for omeka the more people will oooh and ahhh. 22:57 lt; davelestergt; agreed! 22:58 lt; bess_gt; davelester: I’m really looking forward to it, but now I have to go to sleep so I can wake up on time. See you tomorrow! 23:15 lt; jeanne_ksgt; Having trouble deciding ‘Hacking Omeka’ vs ‘GIS/Maps’ vs ‘Interface Design’! — Day changed Sun Jun 01 2008 07:11 lt; dchudgt; mornin’ 07:11 lt; dchudgt; how do i see what everybody has twittered to @ thatcamp all at once? 07:44 lt; sgilliesgt; morning 09:14 lt; sgilliesgt; asolove breaking free of xml! 10:09 lt; asolovegt; text session has been interesting 10:10 lt; bess__gt; mashup session is fascinating. 10:10 lt; asolovegt; what was covered? 10:10 lt; elligt; what was covered in text? 10:10 lt; asolovegt; just using Yahoo/Google/Simile tools, or something additional? 10:11 lt; elligt; mashups talked more about APIs, permanence and guidelines for APIs, and not so much about tools and implementations. 10:11 lt; asolovegt; uh huh 10:11 lt; asolovegt; we discussed some uses and issues with TEI, alternate storage formats 10:11 lt; elligt; (importance of spending the time to develop APIs and make available) 10:12 lt; asolovegt; and cool graphical interfaces for creating digital texts without knowing XML 10:12 lt; elligt; what alternate storage formats 10:12 lt; asolovegt; very interesting 10:13 lt; bess__gt; asolove: we’re talking about everything from google maps, to library of congress web services, to the importance of permanent urls and the implications for scholarship 10:14 lt; bess__gt; excellent conversation, I’m generating way more ideas than I’ll possibly be able to implement 10:14 lt; asolovegt; sounds very interesting, sorry I had to present this round 10:15 lt; bess__gt; asolove: I get the feeling there will be lots of blog posts and writeups about this one 10:15 lt; elligt; Raymond closed with programmableweb,com 10:36 lt; jkramer_ksgt; fyi.. I posted a summary of the Text Mining session from yesterday: www.spellboundblog.com/2008/06/01/thatcamp-2008-text-mining-and-the-persian-carpet-effect/ 10:41 lt; asolovegt; INTERFACE DESIGN IN 401 10:41 lt; asolovegt; whoops 10:43 lt; epistemographergt; asolove: what’s the discussion about in 401? 10:43 lt; asolovegt; funny 10:43 lt; asolovegt; I think we’re looking at the JGAAP interface 10:46 lt; nowviskiegt; can’t believe I didn’t realize you can put a URL to a KML file like this in the search blank for Google Maps! 10:46 lt; nowviskiegt; pleiades.stoa.org/places/archaic.kml 10:47 lt; bess_gt; nowviskie: wow! I didn’t know you could do that either! 10:49 lt; nowviskiegt; yeah, bess — guess what’s going to be on Joe’s to-do list when we get home! 10:49 lt; elligt; Bibliograph session 10:50 lt; elligt; I mean Bibliography 10:50 lt; elligt; Zotero is a good tool for moving bibliographic information from one place to another 10:51 lt; elligt; Bruce D’Arcus style language for bib (CSL) 10:51 lt; dchudgt; bibliograph(y or ic) 10:52 lt; nowviskiegt; re: mashing up georeferenced data — this also works in Google Maps: pleiades.stoa.org/places/archaic.atom 10:52 lt; dancohengt; if the biblio group would like me to come over to 450, let me know 10:52 lt; elligt; we have Trevor here! 10:53 lt; dancohengt; ok, just checking 10:53 lt; erazlogogt; for future thatcamp – find software for all urls opened in all sessions to be automatically saved into one big links file (coins-enabled?) so people could later follow links from sessions they missed 10:55 lt; elligt; zotero/content/tools/csleit.xul 10:59 lt; bess_gt; nowviskie: maybe we could give David G. access to the google sat imagery that way… allow people to export a kml file of the layer he wants and open it in google maps / google earth 11:00 lt; dchudgt; tjowens: note the second author at rfc.net/rfc1165.html 11:05 lt; dancohengt; in the interface design session (rm 401) we’re debating how much to ask users what a good UI is for a tool or collection 11:07 lt; jgsmithgt; re ui: unix tends to optimize for the most common use case, which is the experienced user — explains why man pages tend to be cryptic for those unfamiliar with a particular command 11:08 lt; dancohengt; jgsmith: right. good point. 11:10 lt; bess_gt; in the omeka hacking talk we’re making unreasonable demands of the omeka dev team 11:10 lt; davelester___gt; 11:11 lt; dchudgt; jgsmith: does unix optimize for the most common use case, or the simplest, decomposed, filterable use case? 11:11 lt; asolovegt; it optimizes for the case of people who have write access to the man page in a project 11:11 lt; bess_gt; asolove++ # so true! 11:12 lt; jgsmithgt; well, most people using unix are experienced in unix — the inexperience period is short compared to the rest of a person’s career 11:12 lt; matthewgaventagt; nice parallel: in bibliography, we’re bordering on making unreasonable demands on the zotero team 11:12 lt; bess_gt; matthewgaventa: I’m going to make my unreasonable demands during the lunchtime zotero session 11:13 lt; jgsmithgt; doesn’t mean an interface should be poorly designed — but designed for the person familiar with the process or the concepts involved 11:13 lt; asolovegt; the design might encourage users to learn the underlying system 11:14 lt; jgsmithgt; asolove: -nod- — easier to do in a GUI than a CLI 11:15 lt; dancohengt; note to people making unreasonable demands of CHNMers: don’t make us release the hounds on you. 11:18 lt; epistemographergt; unreasonable demands++ 11:19 lt; dancohengt; fluidproject.org/ and Yahoo UI provide open source nice-looking widgets for websites 11:19 lt; dancohengt; that are tested across many browsers 11:20 lt; epistemographergt; for reference: URL I demo-ed is labs.nypl.org/projects/maps/transparent.html 11:40 lt; bess_gt; OAI/PMH plugin for omeka is fantastic. I’ve never cared deeply about OAI before, but I think I just started. 11:42 lt; elligt; bibliographicontology.com/ 11:50 lt; erazlogogt; use for upcoming mapping plugin in zotero–map your research trips by where archives are located–could be done if there is an archival collection item type with a “place” field 11:58 lt; dchudgt; simile.mit.edu/wiki/Zotz 12:21 lt; davelester_gt; Lightning talks: first up, Mark Tebeau presenting the Euclid Corridor 12:28 lt; matthewgaventagt; next up in dork shorts: jeffrey talking about CSS file structure and organization 12:37 lt; asolovegt; dancohen is about to start the zotero demo 12:39 lt; matthewgaventagt; dave lester is talking about scholarpress 12:41 lt; asolovegt; zotero demo starting 12:49 lt; elligt; Goodbye and thank you to everyone at ThatCamp, enjoy the rest of the day. It’s been great camping with you all. 12:49 lt; asolovegt; leaving early? 12:50 lt; sgilliesgt; cheers, elli. great to meet you 12:50 lt; elligt; yes. have to take a train. It’s been great to meet you, too. 12:53 lt; asolovegt; Twitter seems to be down 12:53 lt; asolovegt; just thing 12:53 lt; asolovegt; Jobs at WWDC, Cohen announcing Zotero server 13:20 lt; karindalzielgt; The librarians on twitter are asking me lots of questions about Zotero server. Much excitement. 13:32 lt; dancohen__gt; good visualizations anyone? post them to IRC 13:33 lt; jgsmithgt; en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Tufte – Tufte’s done a lot of work on data visualization in general 13:34 lt; asolove_gt; Interesting discussion of event microformat standard 13:35 lt; asolove_gt; and now the event discussion is moving into visualization issues and we ought to be talking to the people in 402 13:36 lt; dancohen__gt; hey people talking about time in rm 462: why not join us in rm 402? 13:37 lt; asolove_gt; winds changed and now we’re into interdisciplinary discussion 13:39 lt; dchudgt; if only we could fold time and space. and then visualize that. 13:41 lt; dancohen__gt; come on down! 13:42 lt; dchudgt; somehow i read that as “interplanetary” 13:44 lt; asolovegt; whoops, misunderstood visualization 13:48 lt; karindalzielgt; asolove: What did you think visualization meant? 13:49 lt; asolovegt; I thought we were talking about GIS type issues and graphing not quick display of information 13:50 lt; karindalzielgt; asolove:ah, OK 14:02 lt; bess__gt; we solved all our problems in the international issues session, so we’ve dispersed to other sessions 21:27 lt; shekhargt; any thatcampers want to grab a drink in DC? 21:28 * shekhar opens a beer for thatcampbot 22:02 lt; davelestergt; hey shekhar, where in DC are you at? I’m in Arlington right now 22:14 lt; shekhargt; davelester: i’m in columbia heights 22:14 lt; shekhargt; a bit far, i imagine 22:14 * shekhar passes the pipe to omeka-bot — Day changed Mon Jun 02 2008 14:03 lt; davelestergt; sgillies and jgsmith: great to meet you both this weekend! 14:03 lt; davelestergt; hope you enjoyed # thatcamp 14:04 lt; sgilliesgt; davelester: it rocked 14:04 lt; sgilliesgt; i have a feeling that good things will ripple out of it — Day changed Tue Jun 03 2008 
3765	Yes	 We’re now hiring an Assistant THATCamp Coordinator . The duties of this position will be to create, revise, and maintain support documentation for THATCamp organizers and participants, and assist with ongoing THATCamp support tasks such as creating THATCamp websites, reminding THATCamp organizers of pre- and post-THATCamp tasks, and answering questions by e-mail and Twitter about THATCamp. This is a part-time, temporary position at no more than 10 hours per week for two years (April 2012 – March 2014) at a starting salary of $16 per hour . Work can be done remotely. The position is especially suited to a graduate student in a humanities discipline who is a THATCamp enthusiast. We’ll hire someone who can do the following: Write clearly and concisely, especially when explaining technology to a general audience Build websites, preferably with WordPress (HTML, CSS, some PHP) Explain THATCamp and unconferences to scholars and others based on personal experience Work independently, completing tasks with minimal supervision Keep track of what’s going on at various events (THATCamps happen often!) Please send a résumé or a curriculum vitae and a couple of paragraphs about why you’re right for this position to Amanda French, THATCamp Coordinator, at info@thatcamp.org . We’ll begin reviewing applications April 1 and will let all applicants know the outcome by May 1. The Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media (CHNM) is the leading producer of open source tools for humanists and historical content on the Web (e.g., Zotero , Omeka , the Teaching History website, and the Gulag History website). Each year CHNM’s award-winning project web sites receive over 16 million visitors and over a million people rely on its digital tools to teach, learn and conduct research. 
3766	Yes	 We’re very pleased to announce that we’ve hired Rebecca Onion as the new Assistant THATCamp Coordinator. As her website will tell you, Rebecca is “a Ph.D candidate in the Department of American Studies at the University of Texas at Austin, with research interests including the history of childhood and youth, cultures of science and technology, environmental studies, and visual and material culture.” She’s on Twitter at @ rebeccaonion . Starting in May, Rebecca will be revising our THATCamp help documents, producing new help documents, and adding help documents in new formats (PDFs! epubs! video!). This project to make sure we have useful and complete information for THATCamp organizers, participants, sponsors, and friends will be particularly important as we embark on a major redesign of thatcamp.org this summer (forums! groups! user profiles! cross-THATCamp searching and browsing! cross-THATCamp activity streams!). Later on, Rebecca will help us support ongoing THATCamps and may help us find, preserve, and make accessible older THATCamp content circa 2008-2011. Welcome, Rebecca! 
3767	Yes	 We’re both pleased and grateful to announce that Microsoft Research has given $10,000 in support of THATCamp. An early sponsor of THATCamp Pacific Northwest , Microsoft Research has now made funds of up to $500 available for sixteen separate THATCamps. These funds will be administered and distributed by THATCamp Central at the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media at George Mason University. If you are organizing a THATCamp in the U.S. and are interested in receiving these funds, please write info@thatcamp.org for details. MS Research has supported the work of Internet ethnographer and privacy scholar danah boyd , has produced such useful open source tools for the humanities as ChronoZoom , and has organized an annual Faculty Summit for the express purpose of bringing academic researchers and educators together with Microsoft’s computer scientists and engineers. We’re proud to be associated with them. Special thanks are due to Donald Brinkman , program manager for the Digital Humanities at MS Research, whose vision made this happen. 
3768	Yes	 THATCamp Liberal Arts Colleges 2012 just wrapped up at St. Edward’s University in Austin, TX. One of many GoogleDocs to emerge from the gathering was a Glossary of Digital Humanities —intended as a primer for newbies to DH, who might find themselves nodding and smiling in a THATCamp session, all the while furiously googling acronyms. We had fun coming up with definitions for terms from “ARIS” to “Unconference,” and hope that others will leap into the breach to add a term you’ve always found mystifying, to define a term that’s currently un- or underdefined, or to correct any mistakes you might see. 
3769	Yes	 Yesterday I read Brian Croxall’s post “ Why the 2013 MLA Digital Pedagogy Unconference Isn’t a THATCamp ” with interest. And although it may sound like unhealthily low self-esteem, I’d say that on the whole I agree with Brian that “within academia–or at least in the humanities, where I spend most of my time–unconferences have become synonymous with THATCamp. And I don’t think that’s healthy.” As I wrote a few months ago in a post called “ The Unconference is Alive ,” there are plenty and plenty and plenty of unconferences besides THATCamp, on all When I first started as THATCamp Coordinator, I thought that people would be much more interested in “hacking” the THATCamp format than they have been. Most of the queries I’ve gotten from people thinking of organizing a THATCamp have been questions on what exactly they should do, not what else they might do besides the usual. Basically, I think, THATCamp has been as popular as it is partly because it offers a standard model that can be easily followed: set up a WordPress website, recruit participants, call for participants to post session proposals to the blog, organize sessions into a schedule during the first 90 minutes, have workshops, have discussions, have Dork Shorts, then repair to the nearby Irish pub for a few beers. Certainly I could take some of the blame for the increasing rigidity of that model, but I’ve found that most people are just unnerved enough by the idea of organizing a THATCamp that they’d like to keep it as simple as possible, go with what works, use existing templates. Even Brian and Adeline have used some THATCamp.org text on their own website , and more power to them — that’s why it’s licensed CC-BY. One of the real innovations of THATCamp, after all, is that anyone can organize one without needing the infrastructure of a scholarly association: one of the real difficulties of organizing a THATCamp, as well, is not having the infrastructure of a scholarly association. When you’re going it alone, it helps to have a model to draw on, even if you decide to alter that model. I do think that people going to MLA might get a bit confused about what the difference is between THATCamp MLA and the Digital Pedagogy Unconference , or wonder why they might go to one instead of the other, but to those hypothetical people I say, go to both! THATCamp MLA is January 2nd and the Digital Pedagogy unconference is January 3. What I also hope will happen is that more people in academia will try out more new kinds of meeting formats. You can make them up, of course, but if that sounds a bit intimidating, try the book Open Space Technology (e.g., get everyone in a circle and ask them to address one question) or the book Mob Rule Learning (especially the section on “Facilitation Styles,” including “ appreciative inquiry ,” “ dotmocracy ,” “ birds of a feather ,” “ fishbowl ,” and more). Happy unconferencing … 
3770	Yes	 It’s long been the practice at THATCamp to use Google Docs to take notes on sessions; with Google Docs, everyone who’s in a particular session can contribute to the notes. Some really terrific documents and sets of notes have been produced this way — see for instance “Brainstorming a Digital Humanities Creator Stick” from THATCamp Piedmont or “Intro to Project Management and Planning” from THATCamp CHNM 2011 . Using Google Docs for this purpose, however, has one big drawback: finding the documents afterward. Usually note-takers will put the link to a set of notes on the THATCamp blog, but many people forget to do so. It’s also true that since these documents are owned by one particular person, the persistence and preservation of any one Google Doc depends on that person maintaining a Google account and keeping that document around, well, forever. Therefore, as part of an ongoing redevelopment of thatcamp.org (look for a new site in late November), we asked Boone Gorges to see what he could do about developing a WordPress plugin that would enable the same kind of collaborative real-time editing as Google Docs and Piratepad while keeping the content within the THATCamp site. We also knew that this kind of functionality would be really useful for other people with other purposes. Boone, as we knew he would (after all, he’s the creator of horse_thatbooks ), has built a terrific tool for THATCamp: Participad . Try it out and download it at participad.org , or mess around with it on GitHub at github.com/boonebgorges/participad . You can read more about Participad on Boone’s blog , and I append the official CHNM announcement below. Participad will be available on all THATCamp sites within one month. Can’t wait. *** The Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media is proud to announce the release of Participad , a WordPress plugin for real-time collaborative editing. Participad was developed for THATCamp (The Humanities and Technology Camp) to help participants take notes on unconference sessions, but we anticipate that it will be broadly useful for anyone who wants to co-author a blog post. If one historian in Canada and another in Australia are watching a U.S. presidential debate, for example, they can use Participad to live-blog their reactions. Participad runs on Etherpad Lite and is open source software released under the GNU General Public License . Participad was built by Boone Gorges , the lead developer for CUNY Academic Commons and Anthologize . You can try the demo and download Participad at participad.org . 
3771	Yes	 We are coming to the end of our public beta period for the redesigned thatcamp.org , and to celebrate, we’re going to host a live question and answer session on Twitter. On Friday, December 7th at 10am Eastern , we’ll take half an hour to answer your questions about the process and product of our redesign. If you’re interested in either THATCamp or website redesign in general, keep an eye on the # thatcamp hashtag and/or the @ thatcamp Twitter account at 10am Eastern on 12/7 to participate. All the members of the team will be available to talk about the project: Tom Scheinfeldt , project lead, @ foundhistory on Twitter Amanda French , project manager, @ amandafrench on Twitter Boone Gorges , web developer, @ boone on Twitter Tammie Lister , web designer, @ karmatosed on Twitter Rebecca Onion , content writer, @ rebeccaonion on Twitter Ammon Shepherd , systems administrator, @ mossiso on Twitter In case you hadn’t seen, some of the new features of thatcamp.org include the following: A network-wide Activity page that shows what people are doing on THATCamp sites around the world A network-wide People page where you can search for people who’ve been to a THATCamp User forums where THATCampers and THATCamp organizers can ask and answer questions of one another Lots of new social features, including friending, favoriting, and messaging — log in and look at your own user profile or see my user profile to check them out Built-in collaborative note-taking with Participad (coming soon) A lovely new look and feel Talk to you soon! 
3772	Yes	In my earlier blog post on Tiriel, I discussed the issue of reading Blake’s hand with regard to the word “seald” in object 1.  Here, I discuss another problem that I faced in transcribing this manuscript.  Again, the reading that will be found on the Blake Archive is at odds with those of David Erdman and G. E. Bentley, Jr. In object 10, line 25 of Tiriel, Blake first mentions the name of Tiriel’s youngest daughter.  This name eventually evolves into “Hela” at the end of object 11.  However, Blake originally had another name in mind, which he used in object 10 and in part of object 11, before going back and making emendations to that name.  Blake’s (often inventive) names pose a problem– that examples such as those from my last blog post do not– in that textual context provides no clue as to what the word/name in question might be.  Fortunately, in the case of the “Hela” problem, Blake writes the name several times (there are some instances in which an illegible name appears only once), giving the transcriber a variety of examples to examine. Here is an image of the name taken from object 10, line 25: Erdman (in The Complete Poetry and Prose of William Blake ) suggests that the name “Hela” was originally written as “Hili”, noting that “the first vowel is conjectural, but is not ‘e’” (815n).  Bentley (in William Blake’s Writings ) claims that the ‘e’ in “Hela” “is faulty, as if it were an ‘a’ which has been written over” (914n).  He does not offer a reading of the final letter of the name, which Erdman correctly states is also mended.  Presumably, Bentley reads the first version of the name as “Hala”. In reviewing objects 10 and 11 of the Tiriel manuscript, I came to favor a combination of Bentley’s and Erdman’s readings with regard to the initial version of “Hela”.  I agree with Erdman that the last letter of the name—which is (contrary to Bentley’s description) clearly mended– was originally an “i”.  If you look at the following samples (from 10.27, 11.2, 11.4, and 11.7) as well as that above, you can—in each instance– discern smudge marks above the final letter in the name: These are the dots of “i”s that have been erased (with varying degrees of success) by rubbing.  In fact, the dot in the third example above (from 11.4) is quite plain. However, I do not agree with Erdman’s conjectural reading of the second letter of the initial version of the name as “i”.  This is in part because the erasure marks that appear over the final letters in the examples above do not appear above the second letters.  When I explained this reasoning to Rachel Lee, our Project Coordinator, she observed that the name may have been “Hili” and that Blake may not have dotted the first “i” because it would have interfered with the loop on the capital “H” preceding it.  I shared Rachel’s concern because, in some cases—especially when a pen stroke from another letter (the cross stroke of a “t”, for example) occupies the space above an “i”—Blake will omit the dot.  Therefore, I checked for instances of “i”s following capital “H”s elsewhere.  In object 1, Blake writes “His” several times, dotting the “i” each time: Therefore, “Hili” does not seem to be an accurate reading.  Furthermore, based on the shape of the second letter in the name in the examples given, I believe that Bentley is correct when he suggests that the second letter in the name was originally an “a”.  While the pen strokes in some of the examples above (such as 11.2) are not clear enough to provide a reading of the letter in question, others (particularly 10.27) are. To better enable you to see my readings, in the first image, I traced the pen strokes making up the original letter, an “a”.  In the second, I traced the emendation, an “e”. Long story short, while Erdman reads the original version of “Hela” as “Hili” and Bentley reads “Hala”, I read “Hali”. 
3773	Yes	 If for some inconceivable reason you prefer your podcast clean-shaven, you can skip watching Rob and I debate the merits of The Hobbit and download it in .mp3 format or listen to the whole Lawyers, Guns amp; Money crew discussing all sorts of things in the years to come by subscribing to the RSS feed for the new podcast &#xd; If you're partial to my blather, though, have no fear: I'll link to any I participate in. Also, since I'm the one running the show over there, I may take the initiative and do a few odd podcasts of my own. I have some ... ideas . Stay tuned. 
3774	Yes	The law is such an idiot when it comes to the internet. You can hardly expect better, since it was written in prehistoric times and is being maintained by people who lack many clues. And so to discuss crime and Aaron Swartz , it's useful to distance ourselves from definitions of crime that involve legality. There's a lot happening on the internet that's completely legal and very criminal, and there's also rampant illegality that should't be considered a crime. Crime is really about upsetting or undermining a social construct. Stealing violates our social construct of property. Assault, murder, or hurting people in any way violates our mutual compact to live and let live. Social constructs vary in their utility and their generality. The most broadly useful get codified into laws. Some of the others do, too. When circumstances change, some of the social constructs need to be set aside and new ones constructed. We're left with moral calculus. Here's my definition of moral calculus: it's anything you can't explain to an 8 year old about right and wrong, because the 8 year old isn't corrupt enough to believe it. It's an adult's set of excuses for doing or not doing the right thing. We need these excuses because our world is imperfect. My first conversation with Aaron Swartz had me playing a "good cop" role. I needed to explain to Aaron how some of his mass-downloading was getting people really upset and could have negative consequences for the things he was trying to accomplish. If he would just ask, I told him, he could have an account for an API that DIDN'T crash to smithereens when asked for millions of records. And people were working really hard to make the information he wanted free, it just needed some years to make sure the machinery wouldn't collapse. Aaron sounded embarrassed. I sounded embarrassed. I told him stories about I had once crashed Harvard's library system while doing some tiny little tests. Was that a crime? It wasn't MY bug. Maybe Harvard lost use of its catalog for a few hours in the middle of the night was that such a big deal? I've also fixed crashes in the middle of the night. Believe me, you don't feel very charitable about the idiots who attack your system. The IP addresses usually say they're from Russia or India or China, but 99% of the time they're bots looking for something you don't have, so you make sure your system is robust enough to deal with some nasty tickles, and you go home and sleep soundly. And apparently that's what happened to the folks at JSTOR when Aaron started his systematic downloading aimed at them. So let me tell you a bit about JSTOR. JSTOR is a non-profit organization whose mission is to make scholarly information available in digital form, not just today, but into the future. And they do what they do very well. Almost too well. I had a business developing hyperlinking technology for libraries. The links to JSTOR worked quite well. There was no crashing of THEIR system when I reverse-engineered it. But they also took a legal stance that in order to link to them you had to have a legal agreement. I thought it was dumb, but they insisted on rigorous testing of my links before officially letting my system link to theirs. The result was better linking that benefitted everyone. JSTOR's business model is to charge subscription fees to libraries to enable access to the articles they've digitized. Part of the fees are passed to their journal-publishing partners. And they make assurances to the partners that the intellectual property rights in these journals will be not be compromised. Their nightmare is that some third-world hacker will download all the technical articles and make them available in regions where it might be difficult for JSTOR and their publishing partners to assert their copyrights. So of course JSTOR noticed Aaron's downloading articles and blocked the IP address he was using. Most likely that block affected lots of other people. And they contacted the MIT library to find the source of the mass downloading. Dealing with this kind of thing would have been a routine matter for both JSTOR and MIT Library. It's a common occurrence that someone acquires a proxy-server password from a friend and proceeds to download some journal they need for their research someplace that can't afford its own deluxe JSTOR subscription. So Aaron's first crime in the JSTOR affair was that his actions resulted in the loss of access to JSTOR for some part of the MIT community and loss of productivity at JSTOR and MIT Library. That's inconsiderate, but not illegal. Both MIT and JSTOR had legal obligations to do what they did. Aaron was just using guest access at MIT, so he wasn't bound by any institutional terms of service. And his robot wasn't reading JSTOR's website terms and condition. Aaron didn't stop his downloading when MIT and JSTOR cut him off, alas. I think he was having too much fun eluding his pursuers. He didn't have to do anything terribly sophisticated, but it would have driven the network administrators crazy. There's nothing worse than having a hidden agent on your computer or on your network. Because even if it's not going anywhere it's not allowed to go, if you don't know where it is or what it's doing, you suspect the worst. You start doubting everything, and everyone, and you can lose your sanity. So that was Aaron's second crime. Diving people crazy via self-doubt is a crime in my book. But not illegal. But why the reasonably good non-profit JSTOR? Why not attack Elsevier or some other for-alotta-profit publisher? My guess that Aaron's interest in JSTOR was its trove of public-domain articles. Once he had possession of the public domain articles, Aaron could commit a perfectly legal crime. He could distribute the digitized public-domain articles on the internet, for free. Executing a hack of the legal code was in character for Aaron, he had done it successfully with PACER. While it's most likely legal, "liberating" JSTOR's public domain collection would be Aaron's crime number three, because it undermines an accepted social construct. It doesn't seem wrong to me for JSTOR to recover its digitization and distribution costs by charging willing customers for access. But there's an opposing argument that this information is part of our heritage and that it's immoral to deny people access to information they need, just because you're poor or you don't have connections to a fancy institution of higher learning, or you live in a country that struggles with subsistence or because you're only 13 years old. Those who build on the public domain have a special obligation to respect Tim O'Reilly's "create more value than you capture" rule. It seems that JSTOR has accepted to moral burden of this argument. It's taken important steps to make its public domain corpus available to everyone. The great thing about moral calculus is that you can change it. The fourth and final crime of Aaron Swartz was to commit suicide. That's the crime we're most angry about. My last conversation with Aaron Swartz was at the SOPA protest in Manhattan a year ago. I congratulated him on the fruits of his activism. I told him about Unglue.it and our plans to make ebooks free to the world with crowdfunding. He loved the idea, and made me promise to let him know how it went. It's going ok, Aaron, but we could really use some help. OK Go's  @damienkulash sings at #aaronswnyc CC BY-NC-SA by Schwartzray 
3775	Yes	 [I've been working on some sections of my dissertation that call upon me to connect my evangelicals (spiritual warriors doing strategic-level spiritual warfare against territorial demons) with the broader currents of evangelicalism during the same era. These are just some thoughts about it--definitely unfinished thoughts about it. Feel free to disagree, suggest problems, and so on! Just sharing in a continued effort to bring more of the scholarly process to light.] Donald Miller argued, in his controversial  Reinventing American Protestantism  (1997), that mainline denominations were the losers in the religious economy of the late 20th century. The winners, on the other hand, were churches like Willow Creek Community Church and Saddleback Community Church, but also Calvary Chapel, Vineyard Christian Fellowship , and Hope Chapel. Together these churches represented a new “seeker-friendly” church model that shared many of a dozen characteristics Miller outlined: 1) started after mid-1960s; 2) most members born after 1945; 3) seminary training optional for clergy; 4) contemporary worship style; 5) elevation of lay leadership; 6) extensive small group ministries; 7) informal dress of laity and clergy; 8) pluralism of personal styles valued; 9) humble, self-revealing pastors; 10) bodily worship favored over cognitive worship; 11) affirmation of spiritual gifts; 12) avoids topical sermonizing in favor of verse-centered teaching. For church historians, students of religious studies, or historians of American religion, Miller’s “new paradigm” churches and their features pose a number of problems. Without rehearsing the many complaints of his work (especially his ethnography’s aging Jesus Freak, California-bias), one of the major features of my own work has been a growing fascinating with the broadness of conservative evangelicalism after 1980. Miller’s work helpfully frames the transition of liberal (or progressive) themes, such as anti-establishment sentiments and religion as therapy and religion in service for individual aspiration, into the conservative evangelical movement. In other words, Miller’s churches marry typically conservative elements with progressive stye. How that happened is one of the great stories of the long 1960s or the Vietnam era or the Pre-Reagan evangelical world.  For me–as I study movements that arose in the late 1970s and share many features with Miller’s churches, including the major figure of John Wimber –the most essential problem is one of emphasis. Which one of Miller’s 12 characteristics is  most  essential for these churches. That question fractures Miller’s arbitrary paradigm, forcing it to acknowledge that many of the features of these churches are secondary to the ways they theologically marry the Jesus Movement with northern California’s personality. That these churches have been less successful maintaing the full breadth of Miller’s characteristics  outside   of the West is no surprise. When I look back on my spiritual warrior evangelicals in the broad context of the last 30 years, the primary and most essential characteristic is nearly missed by Miller’s list because it falls halfway between “bodily worship” and “affirmation of spiritual gifts.” Deliverance ministers, prayerwalkers, spiritual mappers, and other prayer warriors don’t simply affirm spiritual gifts or emphasize bodily worship–they radically and substantially expand our understanding of the body in religious practice and force us to acknowledge the new ways spiritual gifts are being used. That the participants may not be dressing up on Sundays (or several other days of the week) is entirely secondary. Why? These Christians care about renewing the  power  of Christianity. For Miller, the cause of new paradigm churches is a larger cultural shift. Using social theory from Max Weber (on routinization and bureaucratization), the contention here is that somehow the seekers looked to the “spiritual” as restorative and the “religious” as primitive. This is, to a a great degree, similar to the arguments of Wade Clark Roof in   Spiritual Marketplace   or Robert Wuthnow’s After Heaven . It’s something about those darned baby boomers. Sorry, dad, your generation is to blame. What’s problematic about this, though, is that it doesn’t help explain the conservatism that emerges from folks out of Fuller Theological Seminary like John Wimber and C. Peter Wagner and their emphasis on power evangelism. At the end of the day, these folks argue, the only thing that matters is true commitment to the Great Commission. It is their extensive involvement with global missionary work that provokes a return to Christianity as imbued with power. Part of that power must emerge to participate in a cosmic spiritual war between God and Satan. The contours of this perspective shares much more–and don’t get too bent out of shape–with the religious terrorists described by Mark Jurgensmeyer in   Terror in the Mind of God . Power is a conduit for better evangelism because it removes Satan’s roadblocks. It’s a grand strategy for Christianity for the whole world. In that sense, to see these Christians as caring about the religious economy or spiritual marketplace scholars describe (using the secular sphere as a container for these exchanges and interactions) is to entirely miss the reclamation of power exercised by these Christians. Why don’t they train their leaders at seminaries? Because the power of the Holy Spirit anoints them. Why do they elevate lay leaders? Because they have a religious duty to wield the power Jesus granted them. Why do they dress casually? Because being sanctimonious about dress doesn’t show the power of the Kingdom of God. Why do they worship bodily? Because rationalizing the supernatural world is not a means to exercise the power of Jesus over it. And so on. In short, Miller and other sociologists have been too willing to look at the socio-cultural context of these movements without really grappling with some of the essential theological issues that emergent. What we don’t know because of this emphasis is whether the renewal of a power-based Christian mode of practice and theology is growing or declining. As I’ve suggested before, when using Google’s N-gram viewer to look at spiritual warfare , this is an area of contemporary Christian that may be in decline. We simply don’t know. But finding a more appropriate home for these evangelicals will be essential if we want to find answers to the question of their growth/decline. Miller made them visible (for many folks for whom they had not been), but he didn’t successfully explain where they came from or why they were becoming popular or even what made they unique. That’s a project scholars are still working. Filed under: academic reflection , American Religous History , Dissertation Research , Evangelical , FFA Friday , History , Religious Studies 
3776	Yes	Boston: No reaction. Seattle: “No, for real?” “Yes, for real.” “That was my first computer!” “How old is that thing?” “It’s from 1982.” “Hey, that used to be state of the art! But now -” [TSA agent takes phone out of pocket, points to it.] “ This has got more processing power!” Los Angeles: “Sir, please come with me.” [TSA agent swabs power supply for explosives.] “Can you tell me what this is for?” “It’s a computer.” [Older TSA agent arrives.] “Hey! A Commodore 64! That’s a classic!” 
3777	Yes	Boston: No reaction. Seattle: “No, for real?” “Yes, for real.” “That was my first computer!” “How old is that thing?” “It’s from 1982.” “Hey, that used to be state of the art! But now -” [TSA agent takes phone out of pocket, points to it.] “ This has got more processing power!” Los Angeles: “Sir, please come with me.” [TSA agent swabs power supply for explosives.] “Can you tell me what this is for?” “It’s a computer.” [Older TSA agent arrives.] “Hey! A Commodore 64! That’s a classic!” 
3778	Yes	http://blogs.bmj.com/bmj-journals-development-blog/2013/01/25/elsevier-reveals-new-layout-for-article-of-the-future/ 
3779	Yes	I’ve been meaning for a while to post these pictures of my classroom. This year, we moved all the musicianship courses to the keyboard/computer lab, which has been awesome for the “inverted” approach to teaching music theory and aural skills. We do a lot of small group and partner work, and make heavy use of the keyboards and computers for composition, analysis, and performance activities. Putting the keyboards into clusters, rather than rows, has been great for that—both for facilitating group work rather than lecture, and for making it easier for me to wander around the room to observe and coach students. Without further ado, here are the pics! (Click to enlarge.) I also have a new office this year, since this classroom is in a different building than my old office (which was, and once again is, a piano practice room). I’ve moved to a room with a window and a lot more space. And my parents and in-laws gave me money for Christmas that allowed me to purchase this snazzy makeshift standing desk: It’s an IKEA Galant table with extendable legs. On top is an IKEA Galant table extension, with 6″ Capita legs. It just sits on top (the table’s extendable legs don’t quite get the table high enough for me, so this gives me a few more inches), and I can take it off if I need to. I really enjoy standing while I work. I work faster, I can drink less coffee without hitting an afternoon slump, and I sleep better (if my four-year-old lets me!). When I’m writing, I like to pace around while working out ideas, so a standing desk is perfect for alternating writing at the computer with pacing around the office while I think out loud. (I don’t have any pictures or video of that particular workflow. Sorry!) Thus ends the tour. If you’re local, feel free to stop by in person. Visitors are always welcome. (Hecklers, however, will be booted to the curb.) 
3780	Yes	 The Atlantic has a story about The Never-Before-Told Story of the World’s First Computer Art (It’s a Sexy Dame) . The image (see above) was apparently created by an IBM programmer for the SAGE system and was used as a diagnostic. According to Tipton, the program that displayed the pin-up image was a diagnostic that tested data flow between the two SAGE computers on site (referred to as the A and B computers). At the end of every shift, as one computer was about to go offline and switch over to the other, the active machine would begin transferring flight and intercept data to the standby machine so there could be a seamless switch over. Two switching consoles on site were used to handle this process. After running the diagnostic, Tipton describes, if the pin-up displayed correctly on the screen, then data was being transferred between the A and B computers correctly. If the image displayed improperly, then the technicians immediately knew there was a problem. This reminds me of the story of Lena and the use of her image . Why were so many early images drawn from porn? Does this say something about the male culture of computing in those years that it was cool/acceptable to use pin up pictures when you needed a graphic image? Thanks to @manovich for this. 
3781	Yes	Burns Day 2012, January 25th, I was drumming my metaphorical fingers on all the desks I could find. My due date had been the 19th; another day or two, and they wouldn’t let me give birth at the Birth Center anymore. This risking out business was annoying! But that was where the bureaucracy won, and I was going to play along whether I liked it or not. I was giddy with impatient anticipation. Felt like an amazon. Wanted haggis. Molly and I briefly fantasized about going to get the really good stuff somewhere in Jersey, but that wasn’t in the cards. I had itchy feet, though, and Molly is the platonic ideal of my traveling companion. “Wanna go have dinner in Maine?” Do I! Duckfat. I’d heard about it, but had never been to the Portland place with amazing-sounding fries. Two hours away is far enough to be a road trip, but totally close enough to get back if, you know. This was it. Last chance to kick start labor and probably avoid a hospital setting. Mid-afternoon, I went to the store and got blue and black cohosh drops. I took some while parked outside of Molly’s workplace in Cambridge, waiting for her to come down. At a gas station half an hour out of town, I went to the bathroom and stared at a tiny wet spot on my jeans. Slight incontinence is a common travel companion in late pregnancy, but this felt different. Getting back, I said, “I think my water just broke.” Molly stared at me. “Are you sure?” “Pretty sure. There wasn’t a dramatic gush or anything, but yeah.” “…Is it bad that my main thought is, drive faster?” We laughed. “Bad, no! It’s why I love you.” So we went on to Portland. I hadn’t thought to bring pads with me, and further didn’t even think to buy any at the gas station. So the moment we were seated at Duckfat, I said to our waitress: “So… My water broke, and I’m in labor! I’m totally fine, or we wouldn’t be here. But I need a pad. I don’t suppose you have any here?” Her eyes got momentarily wider, but she kept her cool. “Congratulations, wow. Uh… *I* don’t have any, and the rest of the staff are dudes. Let me take a look in our first aid kit.” Moments later she was back with a big packet of gauze. “Best I can do.” It was good enough for the moment. Dinner was delicious. Creamy soups, duckfat poutine (!!), duck rillettes, salad with duck confit. I had a blood orange and lemon curd shake that left me speechless. We texted Mark, who was at a company party. Molly posted pictures of our food, one of them captioned: “Tomato-fennel-basil, cream of onion, PS Vika’s water broke.” Our local internet erupted in good wishes. The contractions started very slowly, sometime over dinner. After, we drove to a pharmacy and got real pads. The cashier at the pharmacy walked with me to show me where the bathrooms were. On the way there she suddenly called out, “Whoo! Hot flash!” I laughed and explained to her why I needed pads and a bathroom. We shared a sweet moment. I drove us home. I wanted to see how far I could get, driving through mild contractions, and it turned out–all the way! Molly livetweeted, of course. We chatted about everything. We’ve had some great conversations over the years, but that evening’s was one of the best. Got home in a beautiful dusting of snow, sometime between 11 and midnight. Mark was parked by my place, and we handed me off. Molly walked home, just down the hill. Mark and I went inside, puttered a bit, prepared things to take to the birth center when the time came. He snapped some pictures. We went to bed around midnight. I got up at 2:30am with stronger contractions, and here things get hazy. The intensity of the contractions increased pretty rapidly. I tried to keep hydrated with water and tart juices (can’t stomach sports drinks), but couldn’t keep any of that down. Over the next hour I proceeded to get mildly dehydrated, which worsened the contractions and pushed them closer together, though I didn’t draw the connection then. Around 4am we went to the birth center. The midwife on duty there, Laurie, wasn’t anyone I’d met before, and had easily the worst bedside manner I’d encountered in that place. She was displeased that we’d come, despite the fact that Mark had been on the phone with the center and we’d been told to come. She gave me an internal exam and used a speculum, which hurt like a mofo, and the entire time she was as gently disposed as sandpaper. I wasn’t dilated enough, she said. A few centimeters. A non stress test showed no reason for worry, and an ultrasound confirmed that baby was head down. We should go and keep laboring at home. And, oh, drink lots more fluids. Arrrrgh. Everything they tell you about how much it sucks to ride in a car while having contractions is true. And the pavement quality on Beacon Street between my house and the birth center is infamous with local bicyclists for its potholes. I felt every one, plus all the cracks in the road. We went home at 6am, and the next several hours are a haze of pain and further dehydration. I might have slept a little bit. Throughout the night and morning, Mark was wonderfully supportive, but I don’t remember interacting much around the actual contractions — that seems to have been something I felt the need to deal with on my own. He timed them, though. Things progressed, too slowly. There was a lot of pain. We talked to the birth center once or twice more, and were encouraged to stay the course. But at some point I couldn’t. Sometime close to noon I told him we were going in. He didn’t argue. We got in around 12:15, and discovered that they couldn’t admit me unless they checked me again, and I was so dehydrated that they couldn’t check me until I rehydrated. So for the next hour and a half I lay on the thin narrow couch in the “family room,” a sort of tiny interstitial room, hooked up to an IV saline drip and trying with varying degrees of success to roll with it. Mark intermittently held my hands and made sympathetic noises, and was a generalized rock-solid loving presence. The contractions got bad enough that at some point I remember telling him, “I don’t know if I can do this. I’m close to giving up.” I was afraid, and later decided that this was the beginning of transition into the final stages of labor: often that time is marked by fear. But in the moment, of course, I didn’t remember that, and concentrated on my loved one and the kind nurse encouraging me to get through the rehydrating stage and find out where we really are, because what if we’ve progressed a lot? Would be a shame to check into the hospital with no need, since that’s a thing I wanted to avoid if possible. Fair point, and the baby was doing just fine, so I kept on breathing. Two liters of saline later they took me to get checked out. I actually started crying at the thought of another speculum exam. “No speculum,” the midwife on duty promised. I’d never met her either, but she was different from Ms. Mousy Sandpaper. She was solid and reassuring and full of warmth, and she helped me breathe more easily in the midst of labor. So when she mentioned a student midwife and asked me if it would be ok to have her along, I didn’t think twice. I love student medical practitioners. They’re sweet and brave and interested. And let me tell you: Kate ended up taking over the entire thing including my postpartum visits, and was amazing. But that was later. For now, the senior midwife (whose name I no longer remember) checked me without a speculum. “Oh! You’re at 7.5 centimeters.” Holy crap! Turns out my body had been laboring hard and productively . “Does this mean I get admitted?” Oh yes. Ohhh thank all the deities. They took me to an honest-to-goodness laboring room. With a BATHTUB. I got to float in the warm water, easily the best thing to happen all day up to that point. My birth-center-provided doula was summoned (did I mention I loved my experience at the Cambridge Birth Center?), and spent some intense time with me getting to full dilation without pushing. She had to really work on me, there. The urge to push was strong with this one. This whole time Mark was with me, being a rock star, best birthing companion I could’ve wished for. Later I heard that when he finally left us the next day, he sat in Molly’s kitchen and ate peanut butter straight from the jar for a while, recharging and staring off into space. Plenty deserved. The midwife was covering both the birth center and the hospital delivery ward next door, so we spent some time waiting for her to come back and check me again. Ages later she came back, checked me quickly, and pronounced me fully dilated. But, surprise! The warm tub water was too cool for the baby to be delivered into, so they wanted me to come out. I just looked at them all in disbelief. I remember feeling flickers of rage, but the whole thing was so preposterous—I mean, couldn’t they just turn on the damn hot water faucet?—that there had to be something I didn’t know. I couldn’t use words at that point, so I turned to Mark, who proceeded to be my lungs and mouth. Couldn’t we turn on the hot water? They answered him as they were hustling me out, so I didn’t catch the answer, but he told me later: no, they said. There wasn’t time. This baby was coming too fast. Whee! Everything’s a blur. Here’s what I remember: they got me on the bed and put down some disposable towels. I think I pushed in earnest a total of four times. Then I had a baby. I’d been admitted sometime around 2pm on January 26th. By 3:50 he was out. I was on all fours, and they put him on the bed under me. We stared at each other. He screamed with shock and indignation. I cried and laughed. Mark cried. Everything they tell you about the pain disappearing into a haze on account of the endorphins is true. It was the best, cleanest high I ever expect to experience. Someone helped me turn around and sit, reclined, on the bed. They cleaned up my baby and put him on my belly. Sometime in there I delivered the gorgeous root structure of the placenta, which I had no interest in keeping but was fascinating to see. I had a tiny tear that didn’t need any stitches. They cleaned me up. Everything got a lot more quiet. We rested. Babe-a-licious got checked out and pronounced perfect (7lbs 9.9oz, 21.5 inches). Nobody once suggested taking him out of the room: there was no need. I think I had toast and tea, courtesy of the lovely doula lady. We tried to get him to latch on with some success. Mark snapped some photos . We got a visit from Molly , ate sushi for dinner, drank a vodka toast to his arrival and a long and wonderful life, and picked out his name. Nico Alexander Zafrin. I called my mom. There was another exam (his blood is B+, by the way), and then we napped the nap of the smugly accomplished. They don’t let you stick around for long at the birth center, and I didn’t feel like transferring to the hospital without true need. Around midnight we went home in a dusting of fresh snow. 
3782	Yes	I have been working hard over the past week to close a couple of outstanding issues with the application.  The biggest of those issues is related to the Find/Find All function.  While making some changes a few weeks ago, it appears that I introduced a bug.  I’ve been working off-line with a few folks that have been helping me debug the issue and it appears that I’ve been able to isolate and correct the issue.  The following changes have been made: Bug Fix:  Find/Find All – Regular Expressions were resulting in “Text Not Found” and Boundary errors.  This has been corrected. Bug Fix:  Find/Find All – The Find process has become incredibly slow due to some of the enhancements made to help the program jump directly to the found text when using Find All.  The culprit was an inefficient loop, which has been corrected. Bug Fix:  Find/Find All – When searching, and then moving the cursor and searching again, the program wouldn’t reset where the search would begin.  This has been corrected. Enhancement:  Find/Find All – I’ve added a directional component.  You can now search up and down the record while using Find. Enhancement:  RDA Helper – I’ve added support for the automatic generation of multiple 380 fields when the data to create those elements is available. Enhancement:  Console Program – I’ve added an –xml switch to allow for the processing of data from MARCXML to other XML schemas. You can pick up the new build from: 32-bit: http://people.oregonstate.edu/~reeset/marcedit/software/development/MarcEdit_Setup.msi 64-bit: http://people.oregonstate.edu/~reeset/marcedit/software/development/MarcEdit_Setup64.msi –tr 
3783	Yes	 Je publie mon avant-propos à l’ouvrage «  C’est de plus en plus fou tout ce qu’on peut encore faire au CDI  » dirigé par Philippe Marhic qui cherche à montrer le dynamisme des professeurs-documentalistes sur le terrain au quotidien. Le livre est disponible chez vos libraires habituels. L’occasion pour ceux qui exercent la profession de piocher des idées et de partager des situations vécues. L’ouvrage est aussi utile à ceux qui se destinent à la profession afin d’avoir un aperçu des potentialités. Voici mon avant-propos :  Espaces de fous ! par Olivier Le Deuff, Maître de conférences en sciences de l’information, Université de Bordeaux 3, Laboratoire Mica. Professeur-documentaliste toujours dans l’âme et raisonnablement fou. Je ne sais pas si ce livre est fou, mais je rejoins Chesterton lorsqu’il disait que le fou est celui qui a tout perdu sauf la raison. Et je crois en effet que ce qui resterait au professeur-documentaliste si on devait continuer à fragiliser son équilibre professionnel : c’est bien sa part de folie. Entre raison et folie, un bel univers en tension entre d’une part les évolutions techniques d’un côté et d’autre part les pressions institutionnelles qui veulent faire du CDI et du professeur-documentaliste, une sorte de remède à tous les maux. Paradoxalement, cet état instable voire menaçant a obligé les professeurs-documentalistes à étudier un grand nombre de questions diverses et variées ce qui a parfois permis de renforcer leur légitimité. Beaucoup ont pu ainsi étoffer leurs propres compétences et leur panoplie d’interventions. Le présent ouvrage n’y fait pas exception. L’inscription du CDI dans ces univers fluctuants en fait un objet évoluant et à géométrie variable et ce sans pour autant tomber dans la perspective du learning center, qui n’est en fait qu’une redécouverte par nos collègues anglo-saxons de la perspective pédagogique inscrite dans le document et la documentation. Ce n’est d’ailleurs pas un hasard si les CDI se sont développés en France, car la documentation est un terme peu connu ailleurs que dans la francophonie où on lui préfère bien souvent celui de sciences de l’information et des bibliothèques ( LIS = Library and information science ). La bibliothèque marque un attachement étymologique et physique à la notion de livre, ce qui n’est pas le cas dans la perspective des centres de documentation bien davantage tournés vers le document et l’information. Le cas particulier des CDI réside dans le fait que c’est la dimension d’apprentissage qui est soulignée. En cela, les learning centers ne sont que des redécouvertes de ce qui se produit en France depuis bien longtemps.  Et sans doute certains collègues ont raison de craindre que le risque ne soit au final que le CDI ne devienne un lieu où on n’y fait en fait plus grand-chose, un «  glanding center  » [1] comme l’évoquent parfois les listes de diffusion. Il est donc opportun de rappeler cette place historique du CDI dans l’histoire de la documentation et de bien considérer que la documentation constitue un territoire d’apprentissage de toutes natures. En cela, le CDI a dès le début constitué un lieu alternatif, dans la mesure où les processus ne sont pas ceux du cours traditionnel. Cette logique demeure car il s’agit de concevoir le CDI comme un moyen d’apprendre de différentes manières… ce qui n’exclut pas pour autant des méthodes plus classiques. Il est vrai qu’actuellement se pose à nouveau la question de l’avenir des CDI. Faut-il les faire disparaitre pour privilégier une approche davantage numérique ? Faut-il les décentrer finalement en disséminant la culture de l’information dans les savoirs disciplinaires ? Faut-il changer totalement les lieux pour faire des établissements des CDI géants  comme c’est plus ou moins le souhait de Bruno Devauchelle [2]? Ces réflexions suscitent débats et expérimentations. Bref, il y a vraiment de quoi devenir fous ! Et pourtant, paradoxalement, cette incertitude peut être encore source d’imaginations et d’innovations  car peut-être plus que le lieu, fut-il richement doté et architecturalement bien conçu, c’est particulièrement les projections pédagogiques des acteurs qui permettront la réussite des diverses initiatives et qui susciteront le plaisir d’apprendre et de comprendre des élèves. Voilà pourquoi ce livre montre un certain enthousiasme, une volonté d’aller au-delà des injonctions institutionnelles. S’il devait y avoir une liberté pédagogique affirmée, ce livre en est un bel exemple. D’ailleurs, ces lieux ne sont pas que la demeure réservée du professeur-documentaliste mais davantage le lieu partagé où à chaque recoin de nouvelles portes doivent s’ouvrir. J’avais  d’ailleurs placé sur la porte du CDI du collège dans lequel j’exerçais en basse Normandie à Isigny-Le-Buat, deux citations en exergue : -          La première est la même que celle qui se trouve à l’entrée de l’Eglise de Rennes-le-Château : «  TERRIBILIS EST LOCUS ISTE », ce lieu est terrible car s’y trouve savoirs et connaissances si bien que celui qui y pénètre en sortira nécessairement changé. En cela, j’ai toujours considéré que celui qui rentrait dans le CDI devait s’y trouver transformé, si possible en bien, c’est-à-dire « augmenté » dans ses connaissances mais aussi très souvent en reconnaissance. -          La seconde « la porte  est en dedans ». se trouve initialement au-dessus de la porte de la petite église de Tréhorenteuc.  Et je crois que c’est bien là l’essentiel. Bien d’autres portes se trouvent au sein du lieu CDI comme c’est le cas dans bien des bibliothèques. Cela signifie aussi qu’il ne suffit pas de rendre ce lieu plus agréable et plus attractif, – ce qui est certes plus que souhaitable- mais il faut surtout donner les moyens et donc les clefs pour ouvrir les autres portes. C’est principalement le rôle du professeur-documentaliste et de ses collègues enseignants, mais c’est aussi le but de l’élève de parvenir à décrocher des clefs. C’est aussi pleinement un lieu où les élèves apprendront parfois par eux-mêmes mais très souvent par transmission entre camarades. Les transmissions sont donc diverses. Il peut être étonnant de voir deux exergues religieux dans un établissement public. Mais ce n’est pas le caractère sacré qu’il faut y avoir mais plutôt le sens religieux au niveau étymologique. Religion signifie ce qui relie et donc créer du lien. C’est à mon sens pleinement le rôle du CDI et du professeur-documentaliste d’impulser une dynamique de créations de liens. En cela, il s’agit de permettre à l’élève de se situer et de trouver de quoi ce constituer sa culture personnelle d’honnête homme, telle que la conçoit Hannah Arendt : « en toute occasion, nous devons nous souvenir de ce que, pour les Romains- le premier peuple à prendre la culture au sérieux comme nous -, une personne cultivée devait être : quelqu’un qui sait choisir ses compagnons parmi les hommes, les choses, les pensées, dans le présent comme dans le passé. » [I]   Finalement on le voit tout semble confiner plutôt au « décentrage », ce qui ne signifie pas pour autant dispersion et absence de cohérence. En effet, il apparait opportun de travailler sur comment créer des liens et leur donner du sens dans de nouvelles logiques hypertextuelles. Ce n’est donc pas sur le centre qu’il faut insister mais plutôt sur « ce qui fait lien ». A l’inverse des logiques de décentrement, on observe celles qui tendent vers les convergences médiatiques. En effet,  la recherche d’informations, la lecture d’informations et la publication d’informations se déroulent  autour d’une convergence d’outils que sont les moteurs de recherche, les blogs, les wikis, les forums et les réseaux sociaux parmi les plus importants.  Cette convergence est clairement d’essence numérique et lié à l’accroissement des moyens de se connecter. A cette convergence dans les usages et les outils, il est tentant de répondre par une convergence de la formation.  Les  segmentations autrefois opérationnelles entre les différentes littératies (notamment informationnelles et médiatiques)  ne sont pas idéales et optimales pour comprendre et former les usagers.  Ce constat avait été déjà fait par Alexandre Serres qui en appelait  au rassemblement de la formation à l’information, la formation à l’informatique ou tout au moins aux outils informatiques et l’éducation aux médias : « Il faut donc prendre toute la mesure de la numérisation et de la généralisation d’Internet et des TIC à toutes les sphères de la réalité et repenser, à partir de là, les « litéracies » informationnelles. Autrement dit, il faudrait faire une « révolution copernicienne » dans la conception et la définition des différentes formations à l’information : partir de la réalité des pratiques et des techniques de l’information, des enjeux qui leur sont liés et bâtir ensuite une culture informationnelle globale, intégrant toutes les dimensions de l’information, notamment ces trois cultures spécifiques, portant d’une part sur les médias, la documentation et les bibliothèques, d’autre part sur l’informatique et les outils. Il faudrait y intégrer l’éducation aux images, plus que jamais nécessaire à l’heure de l’explosion des documents vidéos. Il resterait à y ajouter la «cinquième dimension », essentielle (…) : la dimension communicationnelle. [3] » Le CDI est depuis longtemps un lieu de convergence. Cette prise de conscience de l’influence et de l’intérêt des médias n’est pas non plus nouvelle. Simplement, de plus en plus le  numérique facilite et oblige à une formation plus complète et plus ambitieuse qui comporte davantage de phases de productions de contenus. Les expériences d’utilisation décrites ici s’inscrivent dans cette lignée. C’est d’ailleurs pleinement la dimension communicationnelle évoquée par Alexandre Serres qui peut prendre forme dans des travaux qui permettent de réaliser des processus complets et aboutis en matière de traitement et d’analyse d’information jusqu’à sa diffusion que ce soit sous la forme d’un journal papier, sous une forme radiophonique ou sur un site web dédié. Cette phase de production change également le rôle de l’enseignant qui prolonge souvent son action en dehors des temporalités classiques et qui effectue de la médiation sous forme numérique pour valider et corriger les contenus produits par les élèves. Cette médiation est bien évidemment plus individualisée et permet de mieux suivre la progression des élèves et de les motiver davantage. C’est en quelque sorte le prolongement numérique de l’ « effet-maître », un effet qui concerne également les professeurs-documentalistes qui peuvent jouer d’une position souvent originale dans la transmission. Cette position originale mérite un réinvestissement au sein des espaces numériques notamment pour prolonger l’action de formation à l’information et aux médias qui ne s’opèrent que trop souvent à la marge et dans une fréquente impression de bricolage. Certes, on peut y trouver un état d’esprit propice à l’innovation et les actions décrites dans cet ouvrage sont là pour en témoigner mais on peut regretter, si ce n’est parfois un manque de reconnaissance pour les projets mis en place ayant permis de belles réussites, surtout un manque de cohérence qui conduit à différents niveaux de formations à l’information et aux médias selon les établissements. En effet, la culture de l’information souhaitée par de nombreux acteurs n’a pas obtenu encore la place qu’elle mérite dans les cursus. Pour cela, un travail de rationalisation est sans doute à produire tant la culture de l’information repose sur des temps longs et donc des actions parfois lourdes à mener lorsqu’il s’agit de mêler recherche de l’information, analyse et évaluation puis la production. Cela implique des projets qui sortent des séances trop courtes et à la marge pour aller vers des démarches qui comportent obstacles, défis, objectifs et productions qui démontrent une progression et qui peuvent autant constituer des mises en valeur (c’est-dire étymologiquement des « évaluations ») des élèves et par ricochet des enseignants. Les actuels projets de recherche au sujet d’une translittératie démontrent cette richesse d’interactions que le numérique accélère. La translittératie est définie comme « l’habileté à lire, écrire et interagir par le biais d’une variété de plateformes, d’outils et de moyens de communication, de l’iconographie à l’oralité en passant par l’écriture manuscrite, l’édition, la télé, la radio et le cinéma, jusqu’aux réseaux sociaux »[ii] Le CDI et le professeur-documentalistes sont donc amenés à opérer au sein de nouvelles transes. Cela donnera peut-être une énième suite à cet ouvrage.   Sans doute l’objectif le plus important (pour ne pas dire le plus fou), c’est d’être désormais vraiment pris au sérieux par l’institution et les collègues…tout en demeurant toujours un peu fous, c’est-à-dire sans jamais vraiment se prendre trop au sérieux soi-même. Ce qui signifie que les coups de folie ne sont pas finis. [4] [1] Cela nous fait songer à dessin animée japonais « Le collège fou, fou, fou » où le chanteur du générique clame qu ’il faudrait inventer « un collège fou, fou, fou, où on ne fait rien du tout !». [2] Devauchelle, Bruno. Comment le numérique transforme les lieux de savoirs : Le numérique au service du bien commun et de l’accès au savoir pour tous . FYP éditions, 2012. [3] Serres, Alexandre. « Tentative de comparaison des trois cultures : culture des médias, culture de l’information, culture des TIC. Document annexe », Séminaire du GRCDI, Rennes, 14 septembre 2007 . URFIST de  Rennes, 2008. Disp. sur : lt;http://culturedel.info/grcdi/wp-content/uploads/2008/06/seminairegrcdi_aserres_territoirescultinfo.docgt; [4] Une petite référence musicale à Thierry Pastor. [i] Hannah ARENDT . La crise de la culture. Pa ris, Gallimard, 1989 , Op. cit ., p.288 [ii] La traduction en français a été trouvée sur le blog de François GUITE. In Guitef. Disp. Sur : lt;http://www.opossum.ca/guitef/archives/003901.htmlgt; Citation originale : « Transliteracy is the ability to read, write and interact across a range of platforms, tools and media from signing and orality through handwriting, print, TV, radio and film, to digital social networks.”  
3784	Yes	 See on Scoop.it – Cold War History RT @HooverArchives: @mark4harrison investigates secrecy amp; fear in Hoover’s #Soviet Archives http://t.co/DrVrPQia See on www.hoover.org 
3785	Yes	Kathleen Fitzpatrick’s post “If You Can’t Say Anything Nice” post about public shaming on Twitter came at a timely moment for me. Describing the culture of Twitter commentary, she writes: You get irritated by something — something someone said or didn’t say, something that doesn’t work the way you want it to — you toss [...]
3786	Yes	Does anyone else remember the old Mad Magazine comic, Spy v. Spy?  It#39;s a very old comic but often comes back in tv or magazine commercials because it was a classic.  I know from its Wikipedia entr (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spy_vs._Spy ) that Spy v. Spy ran from 1961 to 1987, and had no words.  Antonio Prohias drew one raven-faced spy entirely in white, the other entirely in black, and in each comic one would make diabolic traps for the other who was busily creating traps for the other trapper. read more 
3787	Yes	 Last Friday, January 25th, 2013, I was interviewed on Georgia Tech’s student radio station, WREK 91.1 , for an episode of “ Lost in the Stacks .” Lost in the Stacks– they claim, and I believe to be true– is the one and only Research Library Rock’n#39;Roll radio show. With Wendy Hagenmaier, of GT Archives, and Charlie Bennett, the show’s producer and host (and also of the GT Library), we discussed the myth of the archive, the issue of archival silence, and the future of the archive in the digital age. We also played a series of archive-related rock songs. You can listen to an archived stream of the show here  and view the show’s playlist here . Most of the songs can also be found on this Spotify playlist . For “Don’t Throw Out Your Books” by Piano Moscow– a song I discovered in my own college radio days – click here . 
3788	Yes	Would I be doing what I do now had I been subject to today#39;s University of California graduate tuition and fees? Probably not. — My graduate school experience was unusual, at least for someone pursuing a humanities PhD. While I did teach some, for much of the time I was in grad school I was also working in the technology and entertainment industries. In part this is because I was an immovable ass who wasn#39;t willing to give up my interests in computing in order to pursue a doctorate in the liberal arts. That turned out to be a very smart—if very lucky—brand of truculence. In part it was because I wasn#39;t willing to give up the income that career was providing. My wife... ( read more )
3789	Yes	"Cloud #1" by Braxton Soderman : This mutable poem explores a simple concept, word substitution, using sophisticated tools. The data set is WordNet , which clusters words conceptually so substitutions are governed by synonymy, metonymy, and semantics which should allow the prose poem to retain some coherence. But does it? Here’s the poem after running for minute or so: The text is clearly different, but its basic ideas are recognizable. Allowed to run for over 10 minutes leads it to drift further from its starting point. Like a cloud, this has mutated almost beyond recognition, though it retains its sentence structure and pronouns. Also our memory of its earlier expression helps to shape our reading of it, so our original conceptualization guides its future iterations. This work seems to be a mutated version of the OULIPO N+7 formula, and has also been explored in digital media by Daniel Howe , Serge Bouchardon , and Eugenio Tisselli . 
3790	Yes	Sunday, I’ll be making an exception to my no ALA rule (well, it’s not a rule, but I’ve yet to find a good reason to get back involved) and will be in Seattle giving a talk as part of the ALCTS CaMMS program.  The focus is around research, and I thought it would give me a chance to talk to folks about the RDA Helper and some of the practical research I’ve been doing with MarcEdit to help librarians support RDA encoding rules in MARC through data mining and automatic data creation.  Not particularly all that sexy when you consider some of the more abstract concepts that others (and myself) have been working on – but with March 2013 approaching, I’m hoping that this practical work with help to make a real difference while we work how to make the more abstract concepts real in our production environments.  I’ll post the slides tomorrow, but if you are interested in the RDA Helper, you can find out more about it here:   If you are in Seattle and want to say hi, drop me a line or you can find me here: http://connect.ala.org/node/195883 –TR 
3791	Yes	I recently watched the TED talk by Clay Shirky, “How Cognitive Surplus will Change the World.” It’s well worth the 20 minutes it takes to watch/listen for many reasons (you can download it to a mobile device for convenient viewing or listening). But what struck me most was his discussion of an economic study about the use of fines to regulate behavior. The study—“A fine is a price,” by Gneezy and Rustichini ( Journal of Legal Studies 2000)—which also makes an appearance in the book Freakonomics , recounts an experiment at 10 nearly identical Israeli day care centers. The day cares all closed at 4pm, but found a number of parents picking up their children late, causing employees to stay beyond work hours without extra compensation. In the study, after four weeks of observation, half of the day cares instituted a small fine (approx. $3) for each child picked up more than 10 minutes late. After four weeks, the fine was removed so that none of the day cares charged extra for late pickups. During the four weeks of observation, there was no significant difference in the number of late pickups between the target group of day cares and the control group. As soon as the fines were instituted in the target group, however, the number of late pickups promptly doubled in the day cares that instituted the fines. Once the fines were removed, the late pickups continued, with the target group having twice as many late pickups as the control group, even though there was no longer any difference in policy. Just to be clear, that was not a typo. The fines drastically increased the frequency of late pickups—the very behavior the fines were supposed to reduce. The authors of the study suggest several interpretations of this. The main possibility they suggest is that there is an implicit social/moral contract where parents recognize that a late pickup is imposing on the workers and presuming upon their kindness. They feel bad about imposing, and try to keep it to a minimum, with everyone realizing that these things just happen sometimes. Once a fine is imposed, however, there is no longer an imposition; parents view the fine a price for the extra time, and if they are willing to pay it, they take advantage of the extra time. The fine makes the late pickup into a “commodity,” and for some reason, it retains that status after the fines are removed. The guilt is gone, so to speak, never to return. What does this have to do with grades and the classroom? I’ve blogged and tweeted in the past about how removing late penalties for assignments or ceasing to factor attendance into final grades does not increase student delinquency for my classes, on the whole. However, that does not mean that delinquency does not exist. On Friday, a large number of my students were absent, with only a small number of them notifying me why they were missing. (This actually happens a lot on Fridays.) In Musicianship IV, only 4 of my 12 students showed up! (Though, three were already excused for an inter-collegiate band festival.) I was livid, as were some of the students who showed up. I sent personal emails to each student in that class who did not come and did not talk to me beforehand about why, some of which were very stern if the student is a repeat offender. (I’ve had all of them for three or four semesters in a row, now, so I know their habits well.) The responses I got from some of those emails, combined with others things I’ve heard students say on campus, reflect ideas consistent with those suggested by Gneezy and Rustichini: Excused absences are like sick days at work; they need to be used up because they don’t roll over to the next semester. If an instructor counts students as absent who are more than x minutes late to class (for me, the cutoff is 10 minutes), there’s no point in going to class once you’re already 11 minutes late. If there is a grace period (excused absences, or the 10-minute late/absent cutoff), then compliance should be defined as being within the grace period. In other words, if a student is 11 minutes late, that’s just one minute away from compliance, not 11. These ideas come from a fundamental misunderstanding, which grades and graded attendance contribute to. Some students believe they have met their obligations as long as they stay shy of where penalties kick in. The same is true for grades: even if I as the professor have put in the efforts required of me to make an A possible for every student, if they are happy with a C or a B, they don’t need to match my efforts and seek to learn/master everything in the course—just enough to get the grade they are content with. Grades and attendance penalties have made student coursework into a commodity. This is bad. When I was an undergraduate, I believe I missed two or three classes or rehearsals without being excused ahead of time by my professor. And when I did, I was on the phone or in their office immediately , hat in hand, and in one case hoping desperately that I would not get kicked out of the orchestra concert. (I was in the conservatory practicing before rehearsal, my watch stopped, and I was 15 minutes late when I realized it; the conductor was merciful and let me remain in.) I have never been late for or missing from a professional rehearsal, concert, or class I taught. And this isn’t just me. At Lawrence, there was (and still is) a culture that expects everyone to be at everything, and prepared. Not everyone is, but everyone knows it’s the expectation, and on average, compliance is high. I want to foster this culture at CSU: one in which students don’t view their responsibility as doing just enough not to be penalized, but doing everything they are asked; one in which students don’t work just hard enough not to get in trouble with their professor, but one in which students work at least as hard as their professor at fostering their own musical and academic development. There is talk among some faculty here about tightening the institution-wide compulsory attendance policies. Rather than stiffening penalties or making cutoffs more strict, I want to work with my students to make explicit the implicit social contract of our class: what they expect from me, what they expect from each other, and what I expect from them. I obviously have some things in mind, but I want them to come up with them themselves. So I won’t list them here just yet, in case any of my students read this post. (And I hope, and expect, at least a few will.) I will post an update later, after my students and I have had a pointed chat about these matters. In the mean time, how do other professors, teachers, and students view this moral/social contract? Do grades and graded attendance motivate compliance for you? Or do they just lay out a cost for non-compliance that some students are willing to pay? 
3792	Yes	  I have an addiction to something that most of my friends consider filth and trash. In the last decade it’s become both ubiquitous and hotly disdained. It’s widely hailed as the epitome of everything that is wrong with contemporary life. And yet I cannot stop consuming it. I have a reality TV addiction. As a PhD whose work focuses on popular culture, I have spent a lot of time thinking about high and low culture, about how we become cultivated as informed citizens, and about the production of quality (which often means non-corporate-made) art, music, and literature. So, after establishing that American popular culture offers us a constellation of empty symbols that we readily buy into, effectively turning us into passive blobs of goop, I happily go home and turn my DVR to Botoxed women drunkenly yelling about in Beverly Hills. It’s been one too many times now where a roommate has walked into the living room and I’ve had to change the channel out of fear for being respected less. But I have anxieties and guilt watching reality TV because I know that there are good reasons to dislike reality television, also referred to in the industry as “constructed reality” programs. For one thing, these shows are obviously not really ‘real’ but are only fictionalized and highly controlled representations of reality. There are writers who come up with plot lines and even scripts for these shows–and a major issue, by the way, is that they are not unionized or given credit for their work. To further diminish the likelihood of these shows representing ‘reality’ is the fact that producers and cameramen are always present during filming, inevitably altering the behavior of reality program participants. Secondly, because reality programming is relatively cheap and easy to make, it’s been run rampant as a concept. Every channel now has an overwhelming amount of reality programs taking up airtime—from trade-in shows like Pawn Stars, to shows about quirky subcultures like Duck Dynasty , Jersey Shore , or MTV’s new Buckwild , to reality shows surrounding crafts like tattooing or motorcycle mechanics, to the entirely creepy shows involving the swapping of wives. Many would support the claim that reality television has inched out and made it difficult for more thoughtfully crafted shows to return to the air. Another reason we like to bash reality shows is the content—mostly about wealthy, plastic-faced women who like to fight over seemingly trivial things, finding ways to occupy their painfully pampered existences. There really are quite a few shows that fit this category: the entire Real Housewives franchise, including Miami , Beverly Hills , Orange County , New York , and New Jersey ; Basketball Wives NY and LA ; Big Rich Texas ; Keeping Up with the Kardashians ; Shahs of Sunset ; MTV’s My Sweet 16 . And yet despite all of these things I’m drawn to this particular genre. Not in the sense that I admire these characters necessarily. I’m interested in much of these things from a critical standpoint: the concern with improving one’s looks above any other sorts of ideas or accomplishments; the frivolous spending and one-upping. The plastic surgery and hyper consumption. The focus on fabricated dramas. But because I have such a hard time explaining to peers what it is that draws me to these shows, I’m going to make it a regular cognitive exercise to offer synopses and critical insights about these shows. I don’t know what these insights actually are just yet, but we will see if I can actually make a case for my sick and twisted habit. If just one person tells me I’m on to something, then, damnit, I’ll take it. Reality Check Each week, I digest some of the ‘reality television’ that I’m told is rotting my brain as part of entirely selfish efforts to make myself feel better. Yaaaay! Okay, donkey booties, here we go. REAL HOUSEWIVES OF ATLANTA Clearly, the highlight of this season is newcomer Kenya–a gorgeous yet ferocious former Miss USA who unfortunately has been fed the stereotypes that fuel every female character ever played in a Judd Apatow production. You see, Kenya is clearly freaking out about getting older. Her biological clock is ticking, ticking, ticking… and this woman is damn nearing a massive explosion. Kenya is the 40-year-old single woman who is desperate to get married and have children, and does not seem to care who’s going to marry her as long as he will just do it. In the last few episodes we see her increasingly place pressure on her boyfriend Walter, leading him to draw further away and finally culminating in a breakup in the last episode. She’s also straight-up abrasive, and seems to be the instigator of nearly every argument this season. But the absolute most beautiful gem this season are the last two episodes, which focus on a dispute between two of the ladies over the production of a workout video—a ‘donkey butt’ workout video. [The highest rated definition for ‘donkey butt’ in Urban Dictionary  is “where a chicks ass wheighs more than her body” (sic).] Phaedra and her husband Apollo (a fitness enthusiast who Kenya has been licking her lips over since she first saw him) planned to make the video and had some meetings with Kenya and her production company. When Kenya claimed that the video would cost an outrageous $100,000 to produce, the deal went sour. And in the last episode, we see that Kenya, in an obvious move of pure vengeance, is now starting her own “stallion booty” workout video. The episodes are worth watching simply to observe these women engage in a litany of rumors, arguments, and venomous insults and claims about the shape and size of each others’ behinds (“her backside is lumpier than a batch of bad gravy”… “you could sit a dinner plate on it”… “things fall into weird places…”). Best are the semantic insights offered by all the other ladies over the word choices of “donkey” versus “stallion.” REAL HOUSEWIVES OF BEVERLY HILLS This season’s leading ladies: Lisa Vanderpump, Brandi Glanville, Yolanda Foster, Kyle Richards, Taylor Armstrong, and Adrienne Maloof Taylor deals with the aftermath of her husband’s suicide, which happened shortly after last season aired, which left her with millions in debt and lawsuits to deal with. That tale in and of itself is a fascinating one, one that forces consideration of the overwhelming pressure placed on people in the public eye (KONY 2012 anyone?). And while many like to point out the contrition of reality programs, those series of events could not have been more real. The show cannot be blamed for causing his suicide, but the publicity of his apparently mounting financial problems and the public revelation of his evident physical abuse of Taylor undoubtedly worsened tensions that were already there. But the centerpiece this season is the massive fallout that ensues over the past three episodes when Brandy reveals a secret of Adrienne’s that is so enormous that it sends everyone into a frenzy. The oddest thing is that Brandy’s claims are repeatedly censured, and for several episodes the viewer has no idea what all of this drama is about. (I thought this was reality TV goddamnit! Let’s see what’s really going on!). It turns out that Bravo could not air Brandy’s comments due to legal concerns and legal threats from the Maloof camp. But, in the last episode (and unless you did some online research beforehand, as some leaked the news), we find out that Brandy’s big claim is that Adrienne’s children were accomplished via a surrogate. Before the last episode, I could not understand why news of a surrogate was so damaging to Adrienne. I thought, why not simply admit she’s having a surrogate? I wondered if she had tried to fool everyone, Beyoncé-style, by wearing a prosthetic pregnant belly. But we find out in the last episode that Adrienne wanted to delay explaining the truth to her twin boys until they were ten years old, at the request of their therapist, to avoid confusion and negative reactions. It’s great that Adrienne and Paul Maloof wanted to save their children from the embarrassment, shame, ridicule, confusion, and unnecessary publicity that comes with such a revelation. But then, if that’s the case, then why would they have agreed to be on The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills , where gossip, lies, and feuds are par for the course, and of which their children will be reminded of for the rest of their lives? There is a new housewife on the show this season who is increasingly featured in recent episodes. Her name is Marissa and she’s an actress. We finally meet her husband, an indie film producer (although she wants him to do ‘big studio pictures that will pay a lot of money’). There are several instances in the episode where this woman makes it clear that she is NOT into her husband whatsoever. At dinner with Brandy, right in front of his face, she say’s he’s not her type at all; later in the episode, she goes on to Taylor about how she married him too young and never got a chance to party. Poor, poor guy. This woman reminds me of last season’s failed experiment with Dana Wilkey, the woman who was so intent on displaying some appearance of wealth that she once repeatedly boasted about her $25,000 sunglasses. And to top herself, she later debuted an allegedly million-dollar diamond encrusted lollipop holder . Dana Wilkey was incredible… literally. It was just difficult to believe that any part of her wasn’t playing it up for the cameras. Think about it: she was so fake that she could not pass the muster to become a housewife. And though I don’t care to look up her name, this new tryout seems more honest—cruelly so, in fact. And she’s certainly crazy enough to be kept on for a few more episodes. The episode is also worth watching for Paris Hilton’s cameo midway—oddly enough, on the show, Paris seems acutely aware of the cameras yet tries her hardest to not look at them. She is quite shy and coy, in fact. But there are a couple of minutes where she tells her aunt, housewife Kyle Richards, about her “first concert.” She is referring to her DJ debut at a festival in Sao Palo, Brazil (she explained to her aunt, “Yah.. there’s going to be like, 30,000 people there..”). The whole performance can be summed up really by this picture. CATFISH Who knew two people could be united in some cosmic way without either of their full knowledge? This is Tyler. In this episode, Tyler meets “Amanda Miller,” the cheerleader-like blonde girl he has allegedly been in love with and talking to every day for several months. But instead of the young bubbly girl that has occupied his thoughts all this time, Tyler finds himself standing in front of Aaron—an awkward, spectacled, black gay teenager. During the confrontation (which, like most those in most of the Catfish episodes I’ve seen, are oddly non-confrontational), Aaron reveals that he spoke to probably over 100 men. While very little was said, it’s clear that Aaron was painfully nervous as his mouth continuously wrythed in odd circular shapes. Neve asks Aaron if he would rather be a straight girl than a gay man, and he says yes. Tyler felt deceived. As he looked at Aaron, clearly upset though still collected, one can’t help but consider the fact that these two individuals are clearly from very different social worlds and would never have interacted with each other under any different circumstances. I could not help but look at these two and imagine Aaron typing to Tyler “I want your sexy abs,” while Tyler is on the other end imagining he’s talking to Amanda Miller, who does not actually exist. Later, we learn that Aaron’s closest friends did not know about his fake profiles and compulsive lies. In fact, Aaron was expelled from school for posing as Amanda Miller to his RA before he had moved into the dorms. He could not offer any explanation for his compellation to engage in parasocial relationships pretending to be another person for seven years. The episode concludes with Tyler telling Aaron to move beyond his comfort zone. Then, I kid you not, all of the sudden, everyone is sitting in the grass amidst sunshine, marveling at a turtle amidst uplifting music, as Aaron vows to start from a new point in his life, as the true honest version of himself. I will leave you with Aaron’s joyous epiphany: “For seven years I was two people. Today I became one.” SHAHS OF SUNSET I have to say, I love this show. It’s about an inexplicably wealthy but animated and often endearing group of young Persians living in Los Angeles who drink, fight, and constantly disappoint their parents with lifestyle decisions. The highlight of the last episode is Asa, self-proclaimed “Persian Pop Princess”, who is starting a new business selling the best water ever made on the planet (can the best water be manufactured? I hope not). You see, Asa wants to create diamond-infused water, because she believes that their “vibrational energy is the original energy of the creation of the world.” We then watch her walk through her new water plant with a $75,000 diamond she just purchased, where she performs some magical sorcerer gypsy love spells to bless the water and make it infused with happy thoughts. One might watch her caressing and kissing a metal vat in a sterilized warehouse and wonder, is this an expression of genuine spiritualism or spirited delusion? I mean, really, diamonds ? I’m not surprised that this gem is the one that supposedly harbors the energy of the universe, seeing as it’s the most expensive one out there. Diamonds are the epitome of our culture’s unnecessary emphasis on material items. Confining us to disturbingly narrow images of femininity and success, diamonds seem to offer the furthest things from spiritual fulfillment. It’s everywhere, really, but as we can see in this week’s Slate advice column , somehow it’s still a norm to believe  the bigger the diamond, the better the fiancé . (And goodness knows if someone can even make an engagement ring without a diamond on it!) I also hope that the diamond, which Asa supposedly got a great deal on because the guy who sold it to her went to her high school, does not originate from a conflict-ridden territory. That wouldn’t be great energy for Asa’s water, now would it? Asa also makes me wonder if there is an exoticized culture out there that she has not mined and caricatured into her wardrobe. REALITY TV CRUISES are now officially a trend. There was a RuPaul’s Drag Race cruise and now there is a Top Chef cruise on Celebrity Cruise Lines. So does that mean that these are really lucrative? Do people really want to shell out over $1,000 just to be around semi-famous reality show contestants for a few days? 
3793	Yes	 I spent some time this morning playing with various features of the Python NLTK, trying to think about how much, if any, I wanted to use it with my freshmen. (More on this in a moment.) I loaded in a short story text that we have read, and running it through various functions that the [...]
3794	Yes	Preposted from the antiquist … Ever wondered what all this complex systems talk in archaeology is about, or how to design your own sophisticated simulation model? Then this might be for you: We will organise a workshop on complex systems and agent-based simulations models in archaeology at the CAA Conference in Perth, Australia, this March. Places are still available but Early Bird Registration to the conference ends on Thursday February 7th, so hurry up to get a discount! The workshop itself is free of charge. The workshop will take place on Monday March 25th and will consist of a morning and an afternoon session. At the end of the day you will be able to design and program your own simulation model to help you answer your research questions in archaeology or related social sciences – guaranteed … Registration for the conference at: http://www.caa2013.org/drupal/registration Registration to the workshop will be announced on the CAA website soon, but you can already reserve a seat by contacting Carolin at cv275@cam.ac.uk Hope to see you there. Best wishes, Carolin, Iza, Tom and Eugene Carolin Vegvari (Department of Biological Anthropology, University of Cambridge) Iza Romanowska (Institute for Complex Systems Simulation, University of Southampton) Tom Brughmans (Archaeological Computing Research Group, University of Southampton) Eugene Ch’ng (IBM Visual and Spatial Technology Centre, University of Birmingham) Filed under: Conferences Tagged: agent based , GIS , modeling 
3795	Yes	From the Stoa Consortium : Call for Papers January 24th, 2013 by Gabriel Bodard The Digital Classicist London seminar series, which provides a forum for research into the ancient world that employs digital research methods, invites submissions for Summer 2013. We warmly welcome contributions from students as well as established researchers and practitioners. Themes could include digital text, semantics and linguistics, imaging and visualization, linked data, open access, geographic analysis,  information science  and serious gaming, although this list is by no means exhaustive. While we welcome high-quality application papers discussing individual projects and their immediate context, the series also hopes to accommodate broader theoretical consideration of the use of digital technology in ancient studies. Presentations should have an academic research agenda relevant both to classicists, ancient historians or archaeologists, and to information specialists or digital humanists. The seminars will run on Friday afternoons at 16:30, from June to early August in the Institute of Classical Studies, Senate House, London. There is a budget to assist with  travel to London  (usually from within the UK, but please enquire if you’re coming from further afield). To submit a paper for consideration for the Digital Classicist London Seminars, please email an abstract of 300-500 words to gabriel.bodard@kcl.ac.uk , by midnight UTC on March 22nd, 2013. More information will be found at http://www.digitalclassicist.org/wip/wip2013.html Filed under: Academia , Conferences , United Kingdom Tagged: classical archaeology , classics , geospatial , GIS , linked data , modeling , Topography , United Kingdom 
3796	Yes	I’m late in seeing this, but the new journal from Imaging America on public scholarship, Public , has been announced and there’s a CFP for submissions. This is the Public website and the introductory information from the site is also below: Public   is a peer-reviewed multimedia e-journal for projects, pedagogies, resources and ideas incorporating humanities, arts, and design in public life. Like Imagining America,  Public  seeks rich engagements between a diverse range of participants, disciplines, sectors, and organizations, as well as between works in its interactive archive. Public  promotes vivid description and analysis, documentation, evaluation, inquiry, and critique of projects and partnerships incorporating humanities, arts, and design in public life. It encourages learning and research across the boundaries of discrete disciplines to better realize joint problem-solving and multi-sector contributions. It aspires to connect what we can imagine with what we can do through practice, scholarship, and action. Public is a forum for projects, pedagogies, resources, and ideas. As a project of the national consortium  Imagining America: Artists and Scholars in Public Life ,  Public  takes up Imagining America’s commitment to make visible the value of humanities, arts, and design in building democratic culture with people across traditional divisions of knowledge and from multiple contexts (educational, artistic, business, governmental, neighborhood-based, etc.). Public  will focus on ways that forms including performance, literature, design, sound, historical representation, video, photography, interactive media, and texts are integrated with other types of knowledge to animate and deepen engagement with civic life. We encourage public discussion and resource sharing through innovative uses of online and new media, including an innovative multimedia interface to a growing archive of issues and submissions. Public is committed to a multi-vocality that spans areas such as the arts in economic development, humanities and social justice, and design and environmental stewardship, and that highlights more than one perspective on its subjects and projects. 
3797	Yes	[Update 1/27: Link to the unabridged Tempspence tweets ] From Jan 1- Jan 26th, @spencerpratt ’s Twitter account written by an unknown British poet who had found Spencer’s phone. Turns out he was the main character in a new netprov that Rob and I collaborated on. Through the fictional tale of this obscure poet broadcasting from a Reality star’s account, we explored themes of fame, language play, and what it means to be real. The storyline: The story began when Spencer lost his mobile phone while in London. On January 1, Heidi tweeted: Another wild NYE! So wild Spencer can’t find the new phone I got him for Christmas. It’s probably in the hotel, but since we’ve been here, we’ve seen: Big Ben, London Bridge, Buckingham Palace, went ice skating, and played in red phone booths and taxis. So basically he could’ve lost it anywhere in the UK. @spencerpratt’s next tweets were: Testing…Testing…. OMG! Woh. Yes, cheers, everyone, this is actually Spencer Pratt. And I am married to Heidi Montag. Wow. Spencer sounded different. He knew an awful lot about poetry all of the sudden, including asking followers for bookshop recommendations in London and correcting Twitter followers on their knowledge of haikus. When he went into CBB, however, he kept tweeting. How was this possible? At first he claimed he had found his phone and had been allowed as a plot twist on the new season of CBB, but when CBB producers denied that claim, it became apparent someone had his phone and wanted to sell it. Over the next few days, the phone thief or lucky bloke released a series of “intimate” photos of Heidi showing off her gorgeous mani-pedi, flirting with Gandalf, and showing off her enormous stack of laundry. When the phone finder couldn’t sell the mobile in England, he exposed himself as an obscure British poet who was dying to promote his literary career but could never do that out of fear of being arrested. Tempspence, as he was dubbed, began playing poetry games with Spencer’s followers and fending off accusations that he was a thief. Tempspence took his Spencer name seriously, telling the story of his own romantic life with Una and Duessa, characters in Rennaisance-poet Edmund Spenser’s Faerie Queene . Following the Big Brother format, followers voted which woman he would try to pursue by ReTweeting. Links: TUMBLR set up by the Tempspence poets : Lists all the games amp; has the story the poets wrote about tempspence Storify: Has collected tweets from the games and the ending… Poetry Games amp; the TempSpence Poets You can see all the games here http://tempspencepoets.tumblr.com Here are the games #prattplus7: replace each noun in a famous Spencer Pratt quote with the noun 7 later in the dictionary. #twouplets: (Twitter couplets) rhyme your tweet with someone else’s. #centode: Tweet about your boyfriend or girlfriend for a collective poem. #shibboleth: type a tweet or post a doodle that people could use to prove it’s you. #ekphrastic: describe yourself in a revealing picture #imspencer: type a line you want to hear coming out of @spencerpratt’s mouth #myccb: describe the people you live with as though they were the CBB housemates #jungbro: describe your personality as made up of CBB participants At some point, someone dubbed the character Tempspence and it stuck. The group of tweeps that showed up each morning (London time) to play poetry games became the PTempspence poets and they will be living on as @tempspence, a new twitter account. Sarah-Anne Joulie (Canada) (@SarahAnneJoulie) and Chloe Smith (NZ) (@ChloeSmith0603) are two of the tempspence poets who first met playing one of tempspence games called #twouplets where tweeters rhymed with each other’s tweets. What is a netprov : Read more about this project here: How The Hills’ Spencer Pratt Landed at the Center of a Complex Piece of Twitter Performance Art. Beta Beat by Jessica K Roy Forget ‘Catfish’ amp; Manti Te’o: Spencer Pratt Explains Why He Created His Own Imposter. Radar Online by David Perel Previous netprovs: OccupyMLA : Article about OccupyMLA : The Ballad of Workstudy Seth : A netprov about a fictional workstudy student who ran @markcmarino Fantasy Automated Investors League This is the netprov we played in the class Spencer attended. Grace, Wit, amp; Charm : Workplace netprov about employees for a company that helps you polish your online identity. For more information about electronic literature, see The Electronic Literature Organization : 
3798	Yes	 Filed under: movies , trailers Tagged: Shane Carruth , Upstream Color 
3799	Yes	From Quinn , Aaron’s quip about Lasik: “Lasers are supposed to come out of your eyes.” And from Mako , a story: I remember Aaron confronting Peter Singer — intellectual founder of the modern animal rights movement — at the Boston Vegetarian Food Festival to ask if humans had a moral obligation to stop animals from killing each other. I lurked behind, embarrassed about the question but curious to hear the answer. (Singer sighed and said “yes — sort of” and complemented Aaron on the enormous Marxist commentary he was carrying.) 
3800	Yes	I’ve been following the Dish Hopper lawsuit closely; in fact, it’s next week’s topic in my copyright seminar. If the name sounds familiar, that’s because the Hopper is the DVR that was judged “best in show” at the Consumer Electronics Show by CNET until its corporate parent, CBS, forced CNET to redo the vote with the Hopper excluded. It’s capable of time-shifting an entire week’s worth of prime-time network programming, and has a one-button commercial-skipping feature. The district court’s opinion dealt with two extremely important fair use issues: is it still fair use to tape TV with a DVR rather than with a VCR, and is it fair use to analyze copyrighted works to extract uncopyrightable facts? That opinion is now on appeal, and I’ve joined an amicus brief explaining why the answer to both of these questions should be “yes.” The lead author was Berkeley’s Jason Schultz , with whom I worked at the EFF almost a decade ago. His writing is as punchy as ever; the brief is a good statement of what’s at stake in today’s fair use cases. 
3801	Yes	 Tim McCormick posted an extremely interesting followup to my last post. If you haven’t read it, you should. My comment on his post ran a bit out of control, and so I’m reproducing it here, in part so that I can continue thinking about this after tonight: This is a great post, Tim. Here’s the thing, though: this is exactly the kind of public disagreement that I want the culture of online engagement to be able to foster; it is, as you point out, respectful, but it’s also serious. The problem is that I think this kind of dissensus is in danger as long as our mode of discourse falls so easily into snark, hostility, dismissiveness, and counterproductive incivility. I don’t think it’s accidental that we are having this discussion via our blogs. I had time to sit with my post before I published it. You had time to read it and think about it before you responded. I’ve had time to consider this comment. And not just time — both of us have enough space to flesh out our thoughts. None of this means that by the end of the exchange we’re going to agree; in fact, I’m pretty sure we won’t. But it does mean that we’ve both given serious thought to the disagreement. And this is what has me concerned about recent episodes on Twitter. Not that people disagree, but that there often isn’t enough room in either time or space for thought before responding, and thus that those responses so easily drift toward the most literally thoughtless. I’m not asking anybody not to say exactly what’s on their minds; by all means, do. I’m just asking that we all think about it a bit first. And — if I could have anything — it would be for all of us to think about it not just from our own subject positions, but from the positions of the other people involved. This is where I get accused of wanting everybody to sit around the campfire and sing Kumbaya, which is simply not it at all. Disagree! But recognize that there is the slightest possibility that you (not you, Tim; that general “you” out there) could be wrong , and that the other person might well have a point. So in fact, here’s a point of agreement between the two of us: you say that we need to have “the widest possible disagreements,” and that “to be other-engaged, and world-engaged, we need to be always leaning in to the uncomfortable.” Exactly! But to say that, as a corollary, we have to permit uncivil speech, public insult, and shaming — that anyone who resists this kind of behavior is just demanding that everyone agree — is to say that only the person who is the target of such speech needs to be uncomfortable, that the person who utters it has no responsibility for pausing to consider that other’s position. And there, I disagree quite strongly. (As does, I think, Postel; being liberal in what you accept from others has to be matched by being conservative in what you do for the network to be robust.) I do not think that it should be the sole responsibility of the listener to tune out hostility, or that, as a Twitter respondent said last night, that it’s the responsibility of one who has been publicly shamed simply to decide not to feel that shame. There’s an edge of blaming the victim there that makes me profoundly uncomfortable. But I do think that we all need to do a far better job of listening to one another, and of taking one another seriously when we say that something’s just not okay. That, I think, is the real work that Ryan Cordell did in his fantastic blog post this morning. It’s way less important to me what the specific plan he’s developed for his future Tweeting is (though I think it’s awesome); it’s that he took the time to sit down with a person he’d hurt and find out what had happened from her perspective. It’s not at all incidental that they walked away from their conversation still disagreeing about the scholarly issues that set off their exchange — but with what sounds like a deeper respect for one another as colleagues. This has all become a bit heavier than I want it to be. I have no interest in becoming the civility police. Twitter is fun, and funny, and irreverent, and playful, and I want it to stay that way. But I really resist the use of shame as a tool of either humor or criticism. Shame is corrosive to community. It shuts down discussion, rather than opening it up. And that’s my bottom line. 
3802	Yes	Having recently returned from a trip to Kauai where I used my beach search engine with middling success, I#39;ve now got a few updates out on the site. Firstly, there is a full map showing either all the beaches in a location, or all the beaches from a search within a location. This was a pretty obvious missing feature. Secondly, as this is an active map, you can zoom and pan the map which interactively restricts the set of results. There are some minor improvements to other elements of the site as well. Note - something that always interests me is the relationship between back-end data quality and the presentation of the data. By having a complete map of beaches, it highlights cases where there are duplicates in the results (a topic for another post). If you are heading to Hawaii - give it a try and let me know how you get on. Related articles Snorkel* and Surf* in Kauai and Maui The State of Hawai#39;i Demands a New Search Engine 
3803	Yes	The next time Chad Sansing tells me he’s written a short story, I think I’ll read it immediately. You can skip my preamble, too, and download PDF or EPUB versions of his sobering, dystopian near-future meditation on American education gone awry — The Evaluation — right now. Other formats, below. Several months ago, my husband posted a brief, sci-fi vignette to the Cooperative Catalyst , tagging it with phrases like “merit pay,” “standardized testing,” and “school discipline.” I didn’t realize he had continued the story until a couple of weeks ago (a grim Saturday we spent in our pajamas, mourning Aaron Swartz), when he made a CC-licensed version of the full thing available online . Still, I didn’t read it — at least, not all of it. Just enough to know I wanted to wait for a quiet moment. Tonight, I was reminded of “The Evaluation” by this report of brave teachers at three Seattle public schools whose act of civil disobedience is to refuse to administer and be judged by deeply flawed standardized tests. So I returned to Chad’s story, and was struck enough by it to interrupt his dinner at Educon 2.5 , to insist that he send me a plain-text version, for dolling up and posting in multiple formats, right away. You can read it here: PDF (prettiest) EPUB (for iBooks and various readers) MOBI (for the Kindle) TXT (for remixing) Chad teaches middle school humanities at a grassroots, teacher-led (ie. not corporate-run), arts-infused charter school in Albemarle County, Virginia — the Community Public Charter , which he helped to found. He writes and speaks frequently about redeeming what he calls an “authentic and democratic” education, for teachers and students alike, from a culture driven by dehumanizing standardized assessment and punitive notions of discipline. You can find him at @chadsansing , Classroots.org , the Co-Op Catalyst , the National Writing Project , Democratizing Composition , and probably a handful of other outlets I don’t know about. He’s the teacher you wish your kids had, every year. 
3804	Yes	This morning’s Observer column . Nothing lasts forever: if history has any lesson for us, it is this. It’s a thought that comes from rereading Paul Kennedy’s magisterial tome, The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers , in which he shows that none of the great nation-states or empires of history – Rome; imperial Spain in 1600; France in either its Bourbon or Bonapartist manifestations; the Dutch republic in 1700; Britain in its imperial glory – succeeded in maintaining its global ascendancy for long. What has this got to do with technology? Well, it provides us with a useful way of thinking about two of the tech world’s great powers. 
3805	Yes	Ein Projekt des DIZ Torgau (Stiftung Sächsische Gedenkstätten) mit der Mittelschule Nordwest Torgau im Rahmen des Programms »LernStadtMuseum« des Sächsischen Staatsministeriums für Kultus. 
3806	Yes	 Never Lie About Who You Really Are is such a great post…taking the notion of being who you really are and applying it to product design. “People at all levels, especially management, witness the slow undoing of good customer service, product quality, or safety standards, and they don’t say a thing about it. Even if it violates their own value system and the mission of the company. But if everyone at a crummy airline, for example, had the same zero-tolerance for bad customer service as a lesbian has for lying about the fact that she’s married to a woman, it wouldn’t be a crummy airline for long.” There is also a subtle subtext here…that those in management positions set the tone for what everyone cares about. If an airline manager consistently points out and works to make customer service the number one priority, then all those who work for them will follow suit. This reminds me of Jonathan Ive’s tribute to Steve Jobs , in which he says that Steve cared “more than anybody” that they were making something great, and therefore it drove him to follow suit. FYI: I’m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post Never Lie About Who You Really Are appeared first on Bokardo . 
3807	Yes	Two quotes on books I dated 4 March 2009... Continue reading » 
3808	Yes	 A friend of mine sent me a draft of a lecture she will be giving soon. It contained a reference to a book that she thought interesting and important. It was The Swerve: How the Renaissance Began by Stephen Greenblatt. Since I take my friend seriously, I followed the link and bought the Kindle edition. And now I can’t get any work done: it’s one of those books that takes you by the throat and just won’t let go until it reaches the end. It’s a beautifully-written account of the rediscovery, in 1417, of On The Nature of Things , a poem by Lucretius, and of the impact that rediscovery had in shaping the modern world. The book won a Pulitzer prize, and now I understand why. 
3809	Yes	 21st Centurhy Literacies:  Digital Knowledge, Digital Humanities:  English/ISIS 890  S 2013 Anyone interested in following what we#39;re doing in my graduate class, quot;21st Centurhy Literacies:  Digital Knowledge, Digital Humanities,quot; can tune in here:   http://sites.duke.edu/english890s_01_s2013/   It#39;s all fully public. read more 
3810	Yes	Five Ways Cis Feminists Can Help Build Trans Inclusivity and Intersectionality : eshusplayground : un-birthdayparties : 1) Be willing to confront instances of transphobia, cissexism, cisnormativity, cis-centrism, cis privilege and other forms of destructive bias where you find them (especially when you find them within feminist, activist or queer spaces), not through “call outs” or other toxic, self-defeating or abusive strategies, but by taking the opportunity for genuine discourse. 2) Don’t take a purely passive, reactive approach. Rather than waiting for things like someone saying something overtly cissexist, or a trans person bringing up a particular concern, be willing to  proactively  introduce trans issues, or trans-relevant aspects of broader issues, to feminist discourse. Likewise, proactively treat possible consequences, perspectives and concerns relevant to trans people and trans experiences as being not only significant but essential to  all  feminist issues and conversations. 3) Don’t assume any given issue is strictly, or even primarily, relevant to cis women. All feminist concerns are also transgender concerns, and vice versa. There are  no  feminist dialogues in which trans voices “don’t belong”, or to which trans voices have “nothing to add”. There are  no social issues related to gender that don’t have consequences for trans people. 4) Proactively seek out transgender voices, perspectives and input on all issues, not simply what you regard as “trans issues” or situations where the value of such perspectives is immediately obvious to you. Come to us, rather than waiting for us to come to you. 5) Don’t treat the larger social conflict of gender as being dialectic or binary in nature. Don’t assume a unidirectional model of gender-based oppression. via loversintransition , (original source is Natalie Reed ). Alladat right there. Continue reading → 
3811	Yes	"A Dialogue Between Two Eyeballs" by Braxton Soderman : This kinetic poem is takes the ancient rhetorical and poetic device of the dialogue to investigate the virtual, conceptual, and perceptual spaces of programmable media. Inspired by theoretical writings by John Cayley and Jean-François Lyotard , this poem explores binaries between past and present, old and new, letter and word, simple and complex writing surfaces, and the right and left eye— each of which has a distinct voice and perspective on the topic. The poem’s dialogue unfolds in a page_space that enacts some its ambivalent conversation. The background consists of words from a stanza blown up beyond readability to the point they become enough of a contrast for the foreground text— a process repeated with inverted colors to offer a linear progression of the poem and its ideas. The audio track for this piece is reminiscent of the “ star gate sequence ” in 2001: A Space Odyssey , and may be designed to create a sense of anxiety for the reader to press on in the work, in contrast to the interest in the lines of verse and the ideas they express. Combined with the lateral motion of lines around a center, and the unidirectional back-and-forth progression, this page_space enacts the poem’s rhetorical dynamics between the new and the old. 
3812	Yes	Here#39;s what#39;s happening in Surprise Endings:  Social Science and Literature, S 2013, Duke University.  Co-Taught by Dan Ariely, Cathy Davidson, and 32 Duke undergraduates:  https://sites.duke.edu/english390-5_01_s2013/   Jan 28: Self Control (#1) Monday, Jan 28:  Self Control (Group #1 Presentation) read more 
3813	Yes	 PhotosNormandie 1 vient d’atteindre aujourd’hui 10 millions d’affichages cumulés. Coïncidence, le projet boucle également le 29 janvier prochain sa sixième année d’activité ininterrompue. Nous avons donc enregistré en moyenne plus de 4500 visites quotidiennes. La fréquentation globale est remarquablement stable puisque le cap des 5 millions de visites avait été franchi après 3 années d’activité, très exactement  le 12 janvier 2010 . Comme on le remarque sur le graphique ci-dessus, le nombre d’affichages quotidiens est par contre plus chaotique et varie grandement d’un jour à l’autre. Nous observons d’assez larges fluctuations et parfois des pics de fréquentation importants. Ainsi, en 2009 et 2011, nous avons remarqué plusieurs pointes de fréquentation considérables, sur une seule journée chacune. Elles correspondent très probablement à la copie intégrale de la collection à l’aide d’automates. D’autres pics sont plus faciles à identifier. Sans surprise, les photos des plages du débarquement – surtout Omaha d’ailleurs – sont par exemple très demandées chaque année autour du 6 juin. Le pic du 6 juin 2011 Mais la véritable actualité de PhotosNormandie est ailleurs. Nous sommes en effet très heureux d’annoncer aujourd’hui le lancement d’une nouvelle étape du projet: la traduction en anglais des légendes des photos de la collection . Ce travail progressif, également collaboratif et de longue haleine, sera réalisé sous la direction de Thomas Cauvin, docteur en histoire et chercheur associé au Center for European Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor . L’objectif de cette entreprise est clair. Nous espérons en proposant des légendes en anglais toucher un public beaucoup plus large, et obtenir ainsi de nouvelles contributions afin de progresser encore dans la redocumentarisation de cette collection. L’article PhotosNormandie a cinq ans – un bilan en forme de FAQ publié l’an dernier à la même époque décrit en détail le projet. Je n’y reviens pas ici. 
3814	Yes	 Three years ago today, Steve Jobs launched the iPad on an expectant world, taking lots of people — including yours truly — by surprise. Some toddler. 
3815	Yes	Hi everyone, apologies for the spam attack.  We#39;re working on it. 
3816	Yes	 LinkedIn now offers to visualize your professional networks. A brief glimpse of mine reveals that the components are, themselves, heterogenous: That is, the components are fairly mixed, which, I guess, reveals that a number of people with whom I’ve connected on LinkedIn are themselves involved in a number of communities. The only clear standouts here [...]
3817	Yes	Thanks to Terry Harpold for sharing the CFP below for an upcoming conference. This looks like a great conference, with Stephanie Boluk (an amazing researcher and UF grad) keynoting. The CFP below is from the conference website. Call For Papers: Creative and Critical Approaches in the Digital Humanities Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada May 3-5, 2013 Deadline to apply: February 25, 2013 Click to Download CFP The digital humanities explores how emerging digital forms of scholarly inquiry and new ways to assess and to organize knowledge transform the creative and critical methods humanities scholars use to approach their objects of study. Thoughtful in play, interdisciplinary in engagement, utopian in spirit, and transformational in intent, digital humanists “imagine new couplings and scalings that are facilitated both by new models of research practice and by the availability of new tools and technologies” (The Digital Humanities Manifesto 2.0). The goal of this conference is to highlight the variety of digital approaches, both creative and critical, praxis and theory-based, that scholars are bringing to bear on traditional concerns across the humanities. In addition to traditional conference presentations, organizers are planning a number of workshops on game development and digital tool exploration. A selection of papers may be published in an edited collection following the conference. Possible topics may include: - Game studies - Digital pedagogies - Collaborative scholarship - Archive meets the database - Digital circulation, content curation, and the “long tail” - Translation and remediation - Tool or project development - Hypertextuality and digital narratives - Social media - Hacktivism - Surveillance and privacy - Software and platform studies - The spatial turn - Critically engaged artistic work Submission Instructions: Please email a title and 250-300-word abstract to interfaceconference2013@gmail.com  with the subject “Interface 2013 proposal submission.” Submissions should be in Microsoft Word (.doc) or Rich text (.rtf) formats. Conference presentations should be no longer than 15 minutes in length. Please ensure that the following information is included in your proposal. Page 1: Name, status, institutional affiliation, and email address Paper title Biography suitable for publication (100 words) Brief description of technology requirements Page 2: Paper title Abstract (250-300 words) Up to six relevant keywords **Please ensure all identifying information is removed from page 2** DEADLINE: February 25, 2013 
3818	Yes	The title of this post, “Participation is pretty much a ‘no brainer’” comes from Ann Okerson’s presentation on SCOAP 3 , which is just a brilliant approach to supporting scholarly communications and academic publishing in a sustainable manner for worldwide Open Access. From the SCOAP 3 website , SCOAP 3 is: A consortium facilitates Open Access publishing in High Energy Physics by re-directing subscription money. This answers the request of the High Energy Physics community. Today: (funding bodies through) libraries buy journal subscriptions to support the peer-review service and allow their patrons to read articles. Tomorrow: funding bodies and libraries contribute to the consortium, which pays centrally for the peer-review service. Articles are free to read for everyone. It’s always lovely to hear about SCOAP 3 because it’s such an important and excellent example of how scholarly communities, publishers, and libraries can all work together for their own and worldwide benefit. 
3819	Yes	Below will be the live stream for the LITA Top Tech Trends panel at ALA Midwinter 2013 in Seattle, WA! We’ll be live at 10:30am Pacific Time, and after the show will embed the recording here as well. Enjoy! Topic: If Data resides in a Cloud environment, is it still mine? Panelists: Roy Tennant , Bess Sadler , Todd Carpenter , Carl Grant (moderator), John Law, Mackenzie Smith , Julie Speer Tweet questions to us with hashtag #alamwttt Part One, just a few minutes of recording before the wifi went crazy. Video streaming by Ustream We missed 8 or so minutes of conversation, then got it running again for Part Two. Video streaming by Ustream 
3820	Yes	Book historians, bibliographers, and early modern scholars working on word and image relationships are no doubt excited by new digital tools that allow one to search and match images. The Oxford University’s JISC-funded Integrated Broadside Ballad Archives project has developed such software, and the capabilities of the resulting tool demonstrate the promise of image-matching software. (Developing the image-matching software tool represents only part of the project. As its title implies, the project’s main goal is “to integrate existing resources for the study of the English folk song and printed ballad tradition.” To that end, the project serves to supply a central resource hub for the Bodleian Libraries Ballad collections, University of California Santa Barbara’s online English Broadside Ballad Archive” (EEBA), and the Vaughan Williams Memorial Library’s Roud Broadside and Folk Tune Indexes .) In a recent video , Oxford faculty Giles Bergel (English) Andrew Zisserman (Computer Science), and Relja Arandjelovic (Engineering Science) from the Broadside Ballad Connections offer a fascinating account and demonstration of the new image matching software and how it allows us to track images across early forms of printed literature. Not only is the software enabling and advancing existing scholarship, but, as Bergel notes near the video’s close, this software is generating new research questions such as “When do images became new images?” This diagram offers a quick view of how this software operates and focuses on the following image: From Image-Matching Explained One can also experience firsthand how this tool works by trying the demo . We would be very interested in hearing about experiences using the image-matching functions of the Broadside Ballad Connections well as about other projects using image-matching software or similar tools that enable us to explore visual texts. (Anna has plans to post on EBBA in the near future.) 
3821	Yes	 I#39;ve tagged 1.2.7 anduploaded an sdist to PyPI . There#39;san important bug fix for Windows users in this one. Please heed the warning I#39;ve attached tothe README, dear folks. Warning Windows users: do not under any circumstances use pip (or easy_install) to uninstallShapely versions lt;= 1.2.16. Due to the way Shapely used to install its GEOSDLL and a distribute or setuptools bug, your Python installation may bebroken by an uninstall command. Shapely 1.2.17 will uninstall safely. The highlight of 1.2.17 is the module of affine transformation functionsand utilities written by Mike Toews: shapely.affinity . Themanual isn#39;t up to date yet, but the module is itself very well documented.Here#39;s a brief example of the rotate function, which calls the module#39;smore general affine_transformation function. # Default origin is the center of the geometry#39;s bounding box. # Default unit of angle is the decimal degree, positive is counter-clockwise. # a) 90°, default origin from shapely.affinity import rotate rotated = rotate ( line , 90.0 ) # b) 90°, origin: (0, 0) rotated = rotate ( line , 90.0 , origin = ( 0.0 , 0.0 )) In the figures below, the original line is shown in low alpha grey, the rotated line in blue, and the origin of rotation as a point. I#39;m pleased to be able to say that 6 different programmers contributed to this release. I think this Shapely package just might catch on after all. Update (2013-01-28): Windows binaries by Allan Adair: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Shapely#downloads . 
3822	Yes	 Image of archive from wikipedia photos. This is a sketch of a proposed project I’m working on with Lizette Gurerra. Inspiration: This project draws inspiration from several sources.  One classic archival assignment is to bring students of history or cultural studies into the archive, randomly assign them a box and ask them to write an essay or construct a historical narrative based on the materials.  At the same time, there is also a tradition of archivist traveling to classrooms and bringing with them a “trunk” of materials for students to handle and examine. Project Summary:  The purpose of this project is to facilitate the construction of  narratives,  making use of UCLA’s Chicano Studies Research Center archive materials through the creation of virtual boxes that can be explored by educators, students, scholars and community members.  The narratives created by the “box” users would ultimately become part of the archive and the boxes’ history. Project Rationale The ability to work with archival materials in order to research and construct historical narratives has previously been limited to those with the privilege of accessing  the archive in person.  These institutions rarely are the same ones designated as “Hispanic serving.” This project would allow educators, students (6-12 as well as college and university students) and community members to  have the powerful experience of opening an archive box and working with the original materials. How would it work:  Boxes should be able to both be randomly assigned by teachers and / or users so as to create a sense of surprise and adventure, especially in a classroom situation.  Yet there should also be the ability to request a box on a specific topic so as to make archival materials accessible to community members and students. Box topic ideas: For this project our focus will be on the Southern California Chicano Movement of the 1960s – 70s.  Specifically: Blowouts Moratorium Creation of MEChA Race and gender Arts and popular culture (murals, music?) LGBT (Cyclona) Chicano Park Labor (UFW, Justice for Janitors, Francisa Flores, Regeneracion) Literature (Manazar Gamboa) Questions: What platform could we use to build and maintain this site? Thinking about Omeka , but that’s mainly because I heard about it at THATCamp MLA and was fascinated by it.  Ideas for cool names for the project.  Possibility for users to add their own narratives (and materials) to the site. Other questions and issues we haven’t even thought of yet.  Please let us know what you think. 
3823	Yes	It is high time to talk about Poetic Justice by Mitzi Morris, the recent stylometric mystery novel I have been promising to write about in my post on Amanda Crosses Poetic Justice, also in the series on Computers and Literature … Continue reading → 
3824	Yes	by Alenda Y. Chang Critical game studies is by now a well-developed field. Thus far, however, there has been little sustained interest on behalf of game scholars in connections to the life sciences and pressing modern environmental issues. Popular perception of computer and video games as mere technology and recreation has also arguably shielded them from important questions about how they model natural environments, and the recent, all too familiar furor over video game violence makes these dual oversights rather evident. About a month ago, on Christmas Day, the front page of The New York Times featured a disquieting article about the growing ties between the video game industry and firearms manufacturers, in the wake of public outcry after the tragic Newtown, Connecticut, mass shooting on December 14. [i] Given the accessibility and apparent popularity of the assault-grade weapons used by the shooter (including a Bushmaster semi-automatic military-style rifle and Glock pistol), the article’s authors drew attention to the licensed representation of purchasable guns in well-known, first-person shooter games like Electronic Arts’ Medal of Honor and Activision’s Call of Duty titles. However, the article rates attention less in terms of its predictable media-effects finger pointing, than in its evidence for both the increasing commercialization and branding of game content and the persistent and problematically narrow ideal of realism in game design. Environmental collateral damage in Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (image courtesy Activision.com) For decades, violence and video games has been a particularly fraught topic for anyone involved with the design or study of games, from scholars and researchers to industry employees. Having regularly come under Congressional examination, most often after high-profile shooting sprees of the Columbine and Newtown variety, video game violence is no doubt the game-related issue that most people, non-players especially, are most likely to have encountered in the mainstream media. Though in June 2011 the Supreme Court struck down a California law prohibiting the sale of violent video games to minors, ruling that games, like gruesome fairy tales, are Constitutionally protected cultural forms of free speech, politicians and pundits continue to press legislative reform over video game violence and its potential effect on minors and pathological individuals ( much has already been written about Vice President Joe Biden’s investigations into violent media in prologue to President Obama’s recent recommendations on gun control). Video games (as well as other forms of screen violence) almost always bear the brunt of public and official reprisal , rather than lack of services for the mentally ill, our culture’s general glorification of military strength, and the distinctively American rhetoric of survivalism and frontier individualism (ironically, spokesmen for the National Rifle Association have done their best to redirect blame toward video games , despite the recent release of an NRA-licensed shooting practice iOS app ). While I agree with those that think games are too convenient a scapegoat for heinous acts committed by armed killers, I am more concerned that the obsession with game violence has diverted our attention from other, equally important forms of game realism, other aesthetic and experiential avenues for gameplay and design, and other vital ways in which virtual game worlds inflect and cross over into our lived social and material worlds. Without exempting games from necessary scrutiny of their often extreme and tasteless violence, what might we gain by leaving behind the perpetual struggle between First and Second Amendment rights and instead identifying and addressing what I see as unfortunate but telling lacunae in the study and reception of games? In the first place, not all games are violent, at least in the sense that they involve shooting, maiming and killing, or assassinating one’s virtual enemies. As evidenced by the rise of so-called “art” games and “serious” games (sometimes called “games for change”), more and more games are being created outside of the channels of mainstream entertainment, with forms and goals tightly enmeshed with art, education, and political and social activism. On another level, one might also productively argue that limiting the definition of violence to the kinds of spectacular brutality common in fighting, action-adventure, and shoot-‘em-up games—that is, overt and often graphic physical harm generally committed by humans against other humans—ignores the reality that a different and more pervasive violence is constantly being perpetrated in today’s world, what Rob Nixon has called the “slow violence” of environmental destruction and cumulative toxic effects . Games both duplicate and deny this less sensational but equally destructive sort of violence, often by dissociating industrial and commercial activity from the social and ecological realities of labor, pollution, and waste:   A cheerful call for urban development in Zynga’s CityVille, on Facebook (personal screenshot) And while only some games may be labeled as violent, all games feature a game world or environment in which gameplay occurs, though that environment may range widely in terms of detail and visual fidelity, from the relatively impoverished worlds of text-based or single-screen games to the intricate and immersive three-dimensional worlds of massively multiplayer online games (MMOGs) and blockbuster console games. This suggests that a disproportionate amount of attention has been paid to a particular type (violence) and subtype (graphic violence) of game material, without considering a broader and in many respects more pertinent aspect of games, namely their environmental content. Global environmental upheaval and destruction in the wake of a dragon’s awakening in World of WarCraft: Cataclysm (2010) (image courtesy Joystiq.com) This is where I have focused my thinking for the past four years, while writing a dissertation on the ecology of games (and I really do mean ecology, as in the science presaged by figures like Ernst Haeckel and Jakob von Uexküll, not merely the loose suggestion of significant interrelation implied by terms like political or media ecology). Happily, my work in Playing Nature has found a congenial home in the nascent environmental humanities and ecomedia studies communities, by making an unlikely pair out of the disciplines of literary environmental criticism and new media theory (in particular critical game studies). In my mind, these academic areas offer each other much-needed correctives in a time of both widespread digital technology and environmental crisis, as the one has tended to exclude designed landscapes and modes of mediated interaction perceived as detracting from direct experience of the natural world, while the other has, with rare exceptions, failed to acknowledge emerging technologies’ embeddedness in material circumstances and finite natural systems. In brief, Playing Nature accepts that our experiences of the natural world have been increasingly mediated by technology, in order to consider the tacit ecological lessons offered by both historical and contemporary gameplay. While a depressing majority of mainstream game environments fall into what I have called the “graphical spectacle” and “resource extraction” camps of environmental modeling, I would argue that games lend themselves to the representation and exploratory manipulation of simulated ecological functions, and that they are especially well equipped to remedy the common difficulties faced by environmental educators and activists—including the question of how to successfully render the scale and urgency of global environmental change in less didactic or declamatory and more dynamic and intrinsically engaging forms. Urban revitalization in Flower (2009) (image courtesy thatgamecompany.com) In my work, the term “game environments” is intended to designate more than a game’s scenery, or the pictorial components of its in-game world, or diegesis. Though many remember the scrolling clouds and colorful obstacles of Super Mario Bros. , or the desert sands and garden palaces of Prince of Persia , as the defining elements of their respective game settings, game environments extend beyond surface appearances to the underlying mechanics with which programmers establish the “rules” of game universes. From motion physics to seasons and climatic zones, from resource availability and creature “spawn” rates to concept art and ambient sounds, players operate within a multitude of environmental parameters that determine not only what the game world looks like, but also how it responds to player input. The logic of resource extraction and capital expansion in Zynga’s FarmVille 2 (personal screenshot) While environmentalism, environmental science, and environmental history have by now a decades-long intellectual history, the current groundswell of cross-disciplinary interest in environmental criticism that we are witnessing in the postmillennial aftermath of Deepwater Horizon, Hurricanes Katrina and Sandy, and largely ineffectual international efforts to mitigate climate change, are evidence of both fresh wounds and radically felt anxieties and excitement over the ways that our scholarship can stretch beyond classroom walls and printed pages to the world we inhabit. Though many may rebel against the proposition that something as patently artificial and removed from the elements as a virtual game world might be thought of as environmental, how virtual is the virtual in an era when digital technology premises its eventual ubiquity on controlling a vast share of the world’s resources and transforming discarded electronic waste into othernational problems? And for how many millions of people do the hours spent in game environments vastly outnumber the hours spent outdoors or in wilderness areas, or even engrossed in books, movies, and television? Ontologically and epistemologically speaking, computer and video games present a rich limit case for the claims of environmental scholarship—a place where the natural and the digital collide and prompt careful reexamination of our assumptions about nature, realism, and the virtual. Further reading: From the author Growing Games blog: http://growinggames.net/ “Back to the Virtual Farm: Gleaning the Agriculture-Management Game”: http://isle.oxfordjournals.org/content/19/2/237.extract “Games as Environmental Texts”: http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/qui_parle/v019/19.2.chang.html Related Links New journal Environmental Humanities : http://environmentalhumanities.org/ Ecomedia Studies blog: http://www.ecomediastudies.org/ The Association for the Study of Literature amp; Environment (ASLE): http://www.asle.org/ Terra Nova, an online home for video game scholars: http://terranova.blogs.com/ The Critical Gaming Project at University of Washington: http://depts.washington.edu/critgame/ Rob Nixon, Slow Violence and the Environmentalism of the Poor (Harvard UP, 2011) Bio: Alenda Chang is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Rhetoric at the University of California, Berkeley. Her dissertation, entitled Playing Nature: The Virtual Ecology of Game Environments , proposes new methods and objects for environmental inquiry through multilayered engagement with the imaginative worlds of contemporary gaming. Ms. Chang is an active member of the Berkeley Center for New Media’s Executive Committee and recently helped to launch the Humanities, Arts, Science, and Technology Advanced Collaboratory (HASTAC) forum, “Press Start to Continue,” on future directions in game studies. She maintains the Growing Games blog and has published work in The Information Society , Qui Parle , and Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment .   [i]                    Meier, Barry and Andrew Martin. “Real and Virtual Firearms Nurture a Marketing Link.” New York Times 25 Dec. 2012: A1. Print. 
3825	Yes	 The schedule for my class Big Data, Visualization, and Digital Humanities which runs this semester at The Graduate Center, CUNY is available at this URL (Google doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mf6qlFNqwLLvVPlWAOy0eK3HfbgLlJgIJSyEImM4uSg/edit software studies initiative 
3826	Yes	 The schedule for my class Big Data, Visualization, and Digital Humanities which runs this semester at The Graduate Center, CUNY is available at this URL (Google doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mf6qlFNqwLLvVPlWAOy0eK3HfbgLlJgIJSyEImM4uSg/edit software studies initiative 
3827	Yes	 See on Scoop.it – Things Past Star Wars And History How Real History Formed A Galaxy Far Far Away: You may know your Star Wars history, but do you know how events in the real world helped form the one you saw on the movie screen? See on www.wired.com 
3828	Yes	 Miniature of 'The Spanish Dance'; from Códice de trajes , Germany, 1547, BNE MS Res 285, ff. 2v-3r. 2012 was a milestone year for the Biblioteca Nacionalde España (BNE), the National Library of Spain: throughout the year, the library celebrated the 300th anniversary of its foundation in 1712, by King Felipe V.  In this initial incarnation it was theBiblioteca Pública de Palacio, the Palace Public Library, and in 1836 wastransferred from ownership by the crown to the Ministerio de la Gobernación (Ministryof Governance).  Today, it is Spain#39;slargest library, with collections stretching to 15 million printed books andtens of thousands of manuscripts. In honour of these 300 years of history and letters, today#39;sfeatured manuscript is not from the collections of the British Library, but from thoseof the BNE, as we are excited to contribute here our own #39;virtual exhibition#39; to a series of joint exhibition projects that have been taking place throughout Spain.  Works from the BNE#39;s collections -- including manuscripts, drawings, prints, paintings, maps, photographs, and books -- are being displayed in important museums and cultural institutions across Spain. They will thus reach new publics, be seen in fresh contexts, and inspire different viewpoints, as well as establish a dialogue with works from the collections of more than thirty Spanish institutions. The intention of the BNE and of Acción Cultural Española (AC/E) is to ensure that even those who cannot visit the Library in Madrid can still participate in an event that marks 300 years of a shared cultural history, and the British Library is eager to take part, bringing this cultural exchange to cyberspace! Detail of a miniature of women 'in England'; from Códice de trajes , Germany, 1547, BNE MS Res 285, f. 34v. The focus of today's 'exhibition' is a recently acquired mid-sixteenth-century manuscript, called a códice de trajes , or #39;costume book#39;,made in Germanyby an anonymous artist.  This is anexample of a type of book that – while it may seem strange to us today, in ourculturally interconnected world – was quite popular in the sixteenthcentury.  It is a collection of picturesof clothing worn by people from different countries and different walks of life,celebrating the diversity of national costumes. Books like these are extremely valuable to us today, allowing us torecreate the dress of people who are far removed from us, not by space, but bycenturies of time. Miniature of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain, surrounded by seven of his principal electors; from Códice de trajes , Germany, 1547, BNE MS Res 285, ff. 35v-36r. In addition to pictures of people, grouped together on anempty ground as a kind of pictorial fashion-show, the manuscript also has aninterest in ceremonial, depicting some of the important events of the period,along with the people who took part and, most importantly, the clothing theywore.  We can see here, therefore,Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain, enthroned between seven of hiselectors, identified by coats of arms and carrying imperial regalia.  Charles V is depicted as an older man – as hewould have been at the time of the manuscript#39;s production in 1547.  His portrait, like the depictions of costumesthroughout the manuscript, is copied from other sources rather than taken fromlife, but the images still provide a beautiful and detailed glimpse into thecolour and pomp of the sixteenth century. Miniature of Englishwomen, being (left to right) the wife of a citizen of London, the wife of a wealthy citizen of London, his young daughter, and 'a country-woman as they go nowadays'; from Lucas de Heere, A Description of England, Scotland, and Ireland , Germany, 1573-1575, Add. MS 28330, f. 33r. One of the advantages of electronic media is the ability tobring together objects that, physically, may be very far apart.  It is wonderful, therefore, to be able tocompare side-by-side the pictures from this BNE manuscript with illustrationsfrom a book in the British Library#39;s own collection.  A Descriptionof England, Scotland, and Ireland , produced in Germany only a few decades later,contains beautiful coloured drawings by the painter Lucas de Heere, whichclearly partake in the same tradition of descriptive portrayal of costume.  The group of Englishwomen shown abovedemonstrate the differences in city and country fashions, the threemiddle-class and wealthy Londoners on the left presenting a sharp contrast withthe country-dweller on the right.  Andperhaps the older among them might recognize in the Englishwomen of the BNEmanuscript the fashions of their youth! A shared interest in the appearance and costume of the monarch: detail of a miniature of Queen Elizabeth I, from Lucas de Heere, A Description of England, Scotland, and Ireland , Germany, 1573-1575, Add. MS 28330, f. 4r. We have been delighted to produce this #39;virtual exhibition#39; with the assistance of the Biblioteca Nacional de España, who have generously contributed images from their collection to appear in this post.  Happy Birthday, BNE!   
3829	Yes	 Me: “How is the clean up coming along?” My daughter: “Good.” Me: “What are you doing?” My daughter: “I’m trying to get the dampness out of the towel.” I really wonder what the percentage is of parents in mental hospitals.
3830	Yes	— Two conveniently juxtaposable views on universities today, from two billionaires. First, Michael Bloomberg made a $350 million commitment to his alma mater Johns Hopkins, which he credits with establishing his future as a leader. The contribution brings his total philanthropy to Johns Hopkins to $1.1 billion. In addition to funding need-based financial aid, Bloomberg#39;s donations have made possible a physics building, a school of public health, a children#39;s hospital, a stem-cell research institute, a malaria institute, and a library wing. Second, Mark Cuban wonders in the Huffington Post, Will Your College Go Out of Business Before You Graduate?. In addition... ( read more )
3831	Yes	 ALCTS Scholarly Communications IG Midwinter 2013 Presentation Slides, http://t.co/3OjxpdfL 100+ Supplements for Open Access (the Book), https://t.co/zr91RhKD Two Faces of Fair Use, http://t.co/vvG0fCTR Petition President Obama to Mandate Open Access, http://t.co/enMRr3SX PLOHSS is now Open Library of Humanities, http://t.co/gq7t3i4a | Digital Scholarship | The post Current News: Twitter Updates for 1/27/13 appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3832	Yes	Yes! These random posts are about expanding what counts as DH. Questions of gaming are big in DH so there have been some posts about games as it relates to the human experience. There have also been posts about interesting technologies ( i.e. Lettuce umbrellas). Also posts that provide tips about how tumblr works are meant to remind readers to think about the medium used to share content. Additionally, commentary about social justice issues that use digital tools are something #transformdh is documenting. We’d love your continued engagement and submissions! Please help us cultivate this community! transformdh.tumblr.com/submit Continue reading → 
3833	Yes	 1. January Is the Cruelest Month “Written inside of us is the birth of the solar system and workings of the planet itself.” 2. Selling a New Generation on Guns “Threatened by long-term declining participation in shooting sports, the firearms industry has poured millions of dollars into a broad campaign to ensure its future by getting guns into the hands of more, and younger, children.” 3. The Preppers Next Door “A good number were tweaked to fit their owners’ needs and interests. A locksmith in the group had a lock-picking set. A vegetarian had a stash of homemade dehydrated lentils. One man had a condom designed to serve as an emergency canteen; another had a rat trap — to catch and eat the rats.” 4. The Card of My Dreams, Always Elusive “This was The Card.” 5. Lincoln’s School of Management “Even before Lincoln the movie came along, there was a certain cult of leadership surrounding the 16th president. C.E.O.’s and lesser business lights have long sought inspiration from his life and work. But today, as President Obama embarks on a new term and business leaders struggle to keep pace with a rapidly changing global economy, the lessons of Lincoln seem as fresh as ever. They demonstrate the importance of resilience, forbearance, emotional intelligence, thoughtful listening and the consideration of all sides of an argument. They also show the value of staying true to a larger mission.” 6. Dickens, Austen and Twain, Through a Digital Lens “The new tools of discovery provide a fresh look at culture, much as the microscope gave us a closer look at the subtleties of life and the telescope opened the way to faraway galaxies.” 7. How to Say ‘Look at Me!’ to an Online Recruiter “Having a blog can be a good way to show that you are a thought leader.” 8. Talking, Walking Objects “Robots are entering our homes in subtle ways, through countertop appliances, hand-held tools and wearable gadgets that display specialized and isolated robotic behaviors.” 9. The Rise of the Permanent Temp Economy “Low-wage, temporary jobs have become so widespread that they threaten to become the norm.” 10. Enjoying Snow, While We Still Have It “Snow gives us a new world. It gives us (not least) a day off to contemplate it. Snow bestows silence: deep snowfalls ‘spread their peace,’ said Saint-Exupéry. Above all, snow gives meaning to the great indoors. Thoreau wrote that in winter, ‘warmth stands for all virtue.’” 11. Your Biggest Carbon Sin May Be Air Travel “One round-trip flight from New York to Europe or to San Francisco creates about 2 or 3 tons of carbon dioxide per person.” 12. Successful and Schizophrenic “Far too often, the conventional psychiatric approach to mental illness is to see clusters of symptoms that characterize people. Accordingly, many psychiatrists hold the view that treating symptoms with medication is treating mental illness. But this fails to take into account individuals’ strengths and capabilities, leading mental health professionals to underestimate what their patients can hope to achieve in the world.” 13. A Back-Seat Narrator by the Name of Ishmael In Moby-Dick , nature is a horror. If a creature is believed to be knowing, like the great white whale, it is assumed to be malevolent. And if it has no humanlike awareness, it is endowed, like the polar bear, with ‘irresponsible ferociousness.’ Beneath ‘the loveliest tints of azure,’ there is ‘the universal cannibalism of the sea.’ Under Ishmael’s tutelage, I began to feel guilty for admiring the sunset as we rolled toward Albuquerque. Who knew what the sun was scorching as it rolled over the horizon?” 14. The Race Grows Sweeter Near Its Final Lap “At home, we planted a garden; I finished writing a memoir. Every morning we did push-ups; every evening we sat on the rim of our bathtub and flossed our teeth. He called me ‘sweetheart.’ He never forgot an anniversary, including our first movie date. I gave him flowers on Betty’s birthday.” 15. Alain de Botton: By the Book “We can regard our life as a uselessly disturbing episode in the blissful repose of nothingness. It may be said of it: ‘It is bad today and every day it will get worse, until the worst of all happens.’” 16. Running Through His Mind “He dressed in clothing so tattered that his uncombed, usually unwashed, hair poked out of holes in his hat, and his pants threatened to fall off in pieces as he walked. He ate cheese flies, tiny insects that hover around the tops of old cheese and that he used to gather up into packages and snack on as he brooded over his photographs. Then there was the small matter of the murder.” 17. Ray Kurzweil Says We’re Going to Live Forever “The problem is I can’t get on the phone with you in the future and say, ‘Well, I’ve done it, I have lived forever,’ because it’s never forever.” 18. What Does It Mean to Be Comfortable? “Historically, societies developed methods of dealing with their local climates, and those tools and behaviors became ingrained cultural customs. As the world becomes more interconnected, these customs are changing, and so is the definition of something as elemental as comfort.” 19. How to Make an Ironman Whimper (and Cough) “He is the only person in the world who makes a living at stair racing … In interviews, Dold is chipper and exudes supreme confidence. ‘I can run backward faster than most people can run forward,’ he boasts. (He is in fact one of the world’s premier backward runners, having completed a heels-first mile in 5:46, a world record.)” Filed under: new york times 
3834	Yes	 Resistance is Futile. You will be Assimilated. MediaCommons 1827742106_b240c0b8bf_b.jpg Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities left 
3835	Yes	 Documentary Film and Affect In Media Res 7531487678_a111a9b4ef_o.jpg [January 28 - February 1, 2013] right 
3836	Yes	 We are happy to announce the new website of the 1 st International Conference on Internet Science with much more information included: http://internetscienceconference.eu The deadline for submission of papers has been extended to 15 th of February. ==== CALL FOR PAPERS ==== Internet, Interdisciplinarity amp; Innovation “The first international conference on Internet Science” VENUE: The Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts (KVAB), Rue Ducale 1, Brussels (Belgium) DATE: 10-11 April 2013 WEBSITE:  http://internetscienceconference.eu/ CONTACT:  conference@internet-science.eu SCOPE ——— The Internet, Interdisciplinarity amp; Innovation conference aims at investigating the emergence of Internet science through a deeper multidisciplinary understanding of the development of the Internet as a societal and technological artefact, whose evolution is increasingly intertwined with that of human societies. Its main objective is to allow an open and productive dialogue between all the disciplines that study Internet systems under any technological or humanistic perspectives. We invite both research papers presenting new results and extended abstracts presenting provoking ideas and work-in-progress, shedding light on Internet Science from all involved disciplines and in particular papers crossing rigid disciplines boundaries. TOPICS OF INTEREST (Not limited to) —————————-              Internet, society, and innovation              Design, implementation, and analysis of network architectures and algorithms              Techniques for Internet measurement and simulation              Economic aspects of the Internet              Virtual communities and online lifestyles              Identity, Trust and Privacy              Internet governance and legal policies              E-democracy and e-participation              Security, Resilience and Dependability Aspects              Internet for Sustainability              Analysis of human behavior and social interaction using data from social media amp; online networks              Methodological challenges of analyzing large-scale human interaction and behaviour in the Internet              Network analysis of the Web              Microlevel processes and interactions on the Web              Collective intelligence, collaborative production, and social computing              Networking issues for emerging applications              Intellectual property and the commons              Knowledge, education, and scholarship on and through the Web              People-driven Internet technologies and applications, including collaborative platforms amp; social search, open data and new interfaces              Using the digital records of user activity in the Internet              New research questions and thought-provoking ideas, on the intersection of design and social interaction We are happy to announce that an award will be given to the best student paper submitted to the conference. IMPORTANT DATES ————————– February 15th 2013: Submissions of papers March 3rd 2013: Notification of acceptance for papers March 15th 2013: Camera-ready version of papers 
3837	Yes	 Blog:  College Ready Writing When I first moved over here to IHE, the most controversial posts I wrote (at least, according to the comments section) were about teaching writing. The reality is that I have a PhD in Comparative Literature and the main role of my job is to teach writing. It’s not the best situation, admittedly, but I have to work, and this is the reality of higher education today, particularly in English departments, but not exclusively: 18 credit hours in the broadly defined discipline is all you really need to teach a class. And, I’m trying to make the best of the situation, given the constraints. This semester, I’m now teaching a course that I am possibly even less qualified to teach: Introduction to French. Of course, this isn’t exactly true: I am fluently bilingual who grew up in a French-speaking place, and my PhD is in Comparative Literature (focusing on French and English Canadian literature), with my current research focus looking at Francophone writing from Haiti. Many of my classmates funded their PhDs in Comparative Literature teaching language classes (Spanish, Japanese, Russian, etc). But, like teaching Freshman Composition, does having 18 graduate credit hours in a foreign language qualify one to teach an introductory-level class? There are degrees that can be earned in second language teaching. In fact, our Spanish program is largely about training high school teachers how to teach Spanish. We have English Second Language (ESL) courses for exactly this reason: anyone who has taught Freshman Writing to foreign-language students know that it presents an entirely different set of challenges. I am being reductive but knowing a language isn’t the same thing (clearly) as being able to teach a language. Now, there are many students who spend a year or two overseas teaching English because they are native speakers, but at the end of the day, is this approach the best way to teach languages? I’m not trying to bite the hand that has fed me a new and challenging course for me to teach. But in the same way that we aren’t prepared for teaching writing (or literature) nor are we necessarily prepared to teach intro language courses (even if that is the bread-and-butter for most foreign languages departments). I was going to start this post by saying how hard it’s been to teach this intro to French course, but that would have opened me up to the fairly easy and obvious criticism: Well, what did you expect? To be honest, I’m not sure. Like many courses taught by non-tenure-track faculty, I inherited a course that was not my own, but that follows a certain sequence that needs to be followed. I also got it at a time in the semester where I didn’t have a lot of time to devote to reading up on the various schools of theory and thought on foreign language acquisition in the college classroom. Or much time to even examine the textbook. It’s hard to come up with innovative pedagogical approaches when one is neck-deep in grading and holiday planning. So I’m doing my best to make pronouns and verb conjugation as interesting as possible. I discovered the University of Texas’ free Introduction to French resource , which is helping to at least make the homework (or as I say to my students, practice) more interesting. I think I am making up for the…dry subject matter with enthusiasm and humor. But please, those of you who are foreign language teachers, be nice. I’m making the best of a less-than-ideal situation.   
3838	Yes	I’ve been reading Stephan Collini’s absorbing review of The Letters of T. S. Eliot Volume 3: 1926–1927 in the London Review of Books . A good deal of the review is taken up with discussion of the role that the Criterion , the serious highbrow literary quarterly of which Eliot had become the editor in 1922, played in the poet’s life. The magazine had at its core a small clique of literary intellectuals who met regularly for dinner. The thing about them that stood out for me is the fact that, with one exception (Bonamy Dobrée), none was an academic. F.S. Flint, for example, worked in the civil service. Howard Reed was a curator at the Vamp;A. Alec Randall was a diplomat. And Orlo Williams was clerk to the House of Commons. (And of course for quite a few years Eliot himself had worked in a bank by day and functioned as a poet and literary intellectual only the evenings and at weekends.) Noticing this led to one obvious thought about our own time. How many literary intellectuals – or even public intellectuals generally – nowadays have non–academic jobs? (Excluding journalism.) At the moment, I can only think of two: Matt Ridley , who I think is a banker of sorts (at least he was Chairman of one of the banks — Northern Rock — that spectacularly failed during the banking catastrophe); and Howard Davies . There must be others, but at the moment they are the only two that come to mind. En passant , it’s worth remembering that the fact that the role of public intellectual has become the almost-exclusive preserve of tenured academics in the US is Richard Posner’s main explanation for the decline of the public intellectual in that country. 
3839	Yes	Happy 2013, everyone. It’s been a busy year so far. A few updates. This year I finished 2 netprov collaborations with Rob Wittig: Reality: Being @spencerpratt : a 3-week netprov in which we told the tale of an unknown poet who finds Reality TV personality Spencer Pratt’s mobile phone and begins to tweet from it, playing poetry games on the way. Occupy MLA : a year-long netprov about three adjunct faculty members who band together to fight for their dream of tenure-track jobs. This project created a bit of controversy at the recent MLA convention in Boston. Also, you can now read my game story Living Will , which was recently published in SpringGun Press and was on the Shortlist for the 2012 New Media Writing Prize. The book I co-wrote with 9 other authors, 10 PRINT CHR$(205.5+RND(1)); : GOTO 10, is now available from MIT press or free download here . 
3840	Yes	I want to thank everyone that took the time to attend my Mid-Winter Presentation.  I really appreciated the feedback and the ideas.  It’s the days like today, where I get to share some ideas and get to talk to some interesting people, that makes me glad I work in higher education. Anyway – my presentation, entitled: Dragging old data forward:  finding yourself an RDA Helper can be found here: Dragging old data forward: finding yourself an RDA Helper from reese_terry   –TR 
3841	Yes	From Daily Dot . The Internet is an “essential” utility, like heat or electricity, according to a German court. A federal judge in the southwest state of Karlsruhe ruled Thursday in favor of a man who couldn’t use his DSL connection for two months in late 2008 and early 2009. He’d already been compensated for a disruption to his cell phone service. Under German law, companies must provide compensation for failing to provide customers with “essential material items,” according to Reuters. Just re-stating the obvious, really. But it’s strange to reflect on how perceptions of the Net made the transition from something weird and exotic (in the 1980s) to a public utility like running water and mains electricity (now). The downside is that we take it for granted and are therefore incurious about what’s special about it — which in turn might allow vested interests (governments and corporations) to capture it. That’s one of the thoughts that led me to write From Gutenberg to Zuckerberg: What You Really Need to Know About the Internet . 
3842	Yes	 screen capture of Toronto in Time mobile app By Jay Young A common cliché of our time is to observe that the internet has made us more connected than ever.  Although historians might question the accuracy of this statement, the web, social media, and smart phone apps have allowed new opportunities for engagement with historical artifacts, stories, and landmarks. One only has to look at Canada’s largest city.  Numerous initiatives in Toronto have begun to promote the city’s heritage. Here’s a look at some of these projects. Toronto in Time mobile app for iOS and Android Since going live in October 2012, the Toronto in Time mobile app has enabled users to experience the history of Toronto through thematic trails, historical photographs, and written text.  The app developed out of a partnership of The Canadian Encyclopedia, the Historica-Dominion Institute, Museum Services of the City of Toronto, and Heritage Toronto, with funding from the Ontario Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport, and the Federal Department of Canadian Heritage. The app is organized by historical theme and geographic area.  Themes include Arts amp; Entertainment, Planning Toronto, Law amp; Order, Transportation amp; Communication, and First Peoples.  The app also includes stories on more contentious aspects of the city’s past, like slum conditions in The Ward (the area near present-day Nathan Phillips Square) during the early twentieth century and anti-Greek riots that broke out in August 1918. Although other areas of the Megacity are represented, stories about the downtown  dominate.  This is no surprise. As ActiveHistory.ca’s Tom Peace has observed , Toronto’s heritage infrastructure is highly clustered in the old City of Toronto. David Wencer , a Toronto-based heritage advocate and blogger who contributed text to the app, also thinks it would benefit from more content about areas outside the old City of Toronto such as Etobicoke, Scarborough, and North York.  These areas certainly don’t lack history, and the many stories about their rampant postwar development would make a welcome addition to the app.  In fact, users can contribute by suggesting story ideas for future upgrades.  As we see here, the connectivity of the web allows for the crowdsourcing of historical knowledge and material – or at least avenues for future exploration. BlogTO and Torontoist ’s Historicist Two generalist Toronto blogs with large followings also include strong historical angles to their content.  BlogTO features numerous articles about the city’s past with an emphasis on historical photographs.  Its “ photos by decade ” collection has been extremely popular. At the Torontoist , a dedicated group of writers have made the Historicist an exciting weekly feature dedicated to “the events, places and characters that have shaped Toronto into the city we know today.”  Its writers – Jamie Bradburn, Kevin Plummer, and David Wencer – scour digitized newspapers, archival material, secondary sources to uncovering fascinating stories about the city’s past.  Quite often, weekly articles relate to a current event, whether it be the holiday season or opening day for the Blue Jays .  A recent favourite of mine is Bradburn’s article on the nascent development of cycling infrastructure in the 1970s – certainly a topic of contemporary relevance with the usually hot debate over the place of cycling on the city’s streets. Vintage Toronto Facebook group Another popular initiative is using Facebook to provide a daily feed of historical photographs of the city for heritage buffs. Vintage Toronto , the brainchild of Bill Stevenson, has racked up almost 40,000 “likes” since it began in January 2012. Although Stevenson now operates a store that sells historic items in Kingston, he spent two decades in Toronto from the 1960s to the 1980s. The Toronto Star reported that a similar Facebook group devoted to Los Angeles’ history inspired Stevenson to start group about Toronto. The Toronto group has fans across the world, from Korea to Israel, to right here in the city of course. Nostalgia pervades the group. Thanks in part to its use of “then and now” images of the city (a common technique for many visual-based, online history projects, as Kaitlin Wainwright recently discussed here on ActiveHistory.ca), many comments exude an anti-development – and especially anti-condo – perspective.  “It’s probably a condo now,” is a common response to photographs of historic buildings from followers. Another follower, reflecting on an image from the early twentieth century, noted: “It is amazing to see how people dressed and lived in those days. People always appeared to be happy [and] not stressed out like people of today. Life was so much more simpler then.” Yet these comments, along with the historical images featured on Vintage Toronto, offer a chance for dialogue about change and continuity of today with the past.   Others followers have responded to comments similar to this one by emphasizing the complexity of the past.  For example, one follower questioned the supposed innocence of earlier times by mentioning the various exclusion acts against the Chinese that existed in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Although we may think that Toronto of earlier decades was a simpler place, the follower argued, these eras saw oppression towards various social groups. Most of Vintage Toronto’s images come from official sources of memory such as the City of Toronto Archives and the Toronto Public Library. But as the Facebook group has grown, so have the thousands of private images of memorabilia and family photos.  In this sense, Vintage Toronto has become a virtual archive where ordinary people share their personal artifacts of the past. Like Toronto in Time, Vintage Toronto illustrates how Facebook can facilitate new historical knowledge through a basic form of crowdsourcing. Recent tweets by artifactsTO artifactsTO on Twitter The Collections amp; Conservation Centre of the City of Toronto’s Museum Services uses a regular twitter feed – @artifactsTO – to highlight objects from its collection of historical artifacts.  The initiative gives nearby 600 followers the chance to check out the material history of the city, from exemplary to mundane items of everyday life in the city. ArtifactsTO recently featured a “cold storage week” with tweets that included links to different fridges, freezers, and advertisements for such technologies (see right). Opportunities for future initiatives The projects outlined above show how digital and social media can help us forge strong connection to our pasts, whether it be through official histories or very personal memories. And there are more opportunities.  Unlike other major cities, no regular podcast about Toronto’s history exists (although Heritage Toronto does feature podcasts from its talks, roundtables and walking tours). New York has The Bowery Boys podcast hosted by Greg Young and Tom Meyers. One of my favourite episodes is their conversation about the exciting history of brewing in the metropolis. A Toronto history podcast would be an excellent compliment to the Toronto in Time mobile app. Augmenting the app’s visual sources with sound could allow users to experience a multi-sensorial dimension to the walking tours. What other examples of promoting Toronto’s history through digital and social media have I missed?  What exciting initiatives are happening in other cities? We would love to hear from you in the comment section. Jay Young is an editor at ActiveHistory.ca.  He holds a PhD in history from York University. 
3843	Yes	I thought it was worth posting this announcement I saw about the KualiOLE project  receiving further funding from the Mellon Foundation ($750,000 in total). While the KualiOLE project is a partnership between US research libraries, it is also a project which is generating some interest within the UK library community. I don’t think it would be an overstatement to claim that the Library Systems landscape is in a particularly interesting phase at the moment . A few years ago, 2007/8, Jisc and SCONUL released their  LMS landscape report which reflected on the library communities frustration at the perceived lack of visible innovation with the systems space. Over the past few years that landscape has been somewhat transformed with new proprietary systems from all the major library systems vendors , as well as the first implementation of an open source solution at Staffordshire University . And, we shouldn’t forget the impact of  the  sale of Talis group’s Library Division  to Capita. This agitation of the fragile library systems ecology has continued apace, and things do not seem to be slowing down… Late last year, the Bloomsbury Library Management Systems Consortium made a decision in principle to develop a new, 21st century Library Systems with KualiOLE as its platform. There is a great post by John Robinson of SOAS   on what led them to the decision and what the library systems landscape looks like from their perspective at the moment. At the same time some of the projects involved in the Jisc Library Systems programme have had their interest sparked by the KualiOLE project. This interest and general awareness was catalysed by the SCONUL KualiOLE seminar held prior to the SCONUL Winter conference in December 2012, which a number of institutions attended. A number of projects and libraries posted thoughts on the work of KualiOLE, a sample of some are below: The Benefits of Sharing project in Scotland, blogged some thoughts on the project. Richard Nurse of the OU reflected  on the seminar. There has also been a very fruitful partnership between KualiOLE, Jisc and JISC Collections to build an open web service that provides electronic resource information on a global scale. The Global Open knowledgebase (GOKb) project  is working in partnership with knowledgebase+ (KB+)   and sharing a common data model to help address those global electronic resource management issues, such as data accuracy, transfer formats and so on. As well as helping establish a global library community working together to solve some of these everyday frustrations and challenges. GOKb is set to deliver an open, community-based, international data repository that will provide libraries with publication information about electronic resources, supporting libraries in providing efficient and effective services to their users and ensuring that critical electronic collections are available to their students and researchers . It will help underpin both the KualiOLE management system, and provide valuable data and collaboration for KB+ and the UK library community. So these are very exciting times for libraries (in both the UK and elsewhere) as they reflect on the requirements of their users and the functionality and agility of their systems. And, while libraries find themselves navigating through these constantly treacherous technological waters, it may be worth keeping an eye on the work of the LMS Change project . Like a bright star in the sky, it may help guide you to slightly calmer waters!   
3844	Yes	 Help Open Library of Humanities build the future of academic publishing in the humanities by pledging to publish a paper with us in our first year. If we are operating on any kind of article processing charge model (pending decisions of the Finance Committee) and you do not have a sponsor or institutional funds, this will be waived. read more 
3845	Yes	Thomas L. Reinsfelder has self-archived his quot; Academic Administrator Influence on Institutional Commitment to Open Access of Scholarly Research quot; dissertation in Indiana University of Pennsylvania DSpace Here#39;s an excerpt: This quantitative study investigated the interrelationships among faculty researchers, publishers, librarians, and academic administrators when dealing with the open access of scholarly research. This study sought to identify the nature of any relationship between the perceived attitudes and actions of academic administrators and an institution#39;s commitment to open access as reported by library directors. A survey research design was used to collect data based on perceptions of library directors at four year colleges and universities in the United States. Results of this study show that as academic administrator attention to open access increases so do the open access activities of faculty and librarians. Information presented may benefit members in each stakeholder group by allowing them to better position their organizations for future success in a complex environment. This study may also benefit advocates of open access who wish to expand services and other initiatives that encourage the greater accessibility of scholarly work. | Institutional Repository and ETD Bibliography 2011 (paperback and PDF file; over 600 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post quot;Academic Administrator Influence on Institutional Commitment to Open Access of Scholarly Researchquot; appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3846	Yes	The University of Iowa Libraries are recruiting a Head, Digital Research amp; Publishing. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : Formerly Digital Library Services, DRP was recently redefined with a mission to explore ways that academic libraries can best leverage digital collections, resources, and expertise to support faculty, research staff, and student scholars in their own research and scholarly activities. Specifically, DRP collaborates on interdisciplinary scholarship built upon digital collections, offers publishing services to support sustainable scholarly communication, engages the community through participatory archive initiatives, explores new technologies such as geospatial applications and linked open data, and oversees the University#39;s institutional repository. Reporting to the Associate University Librarian for Information Technology, the Head of DRP has direct administrative responsibility for the department#39;s strategic planning, staffing, and daily operations. This position serves as a senior advisor to library management and interacts extensively with other campus units and library departments on issues related to digital research and publishing. | Digital Scholarship | The post Head, Digital Research amp; Publishing at University of Iowa Libraries appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3847	Yes	ALA#39;s Digital Content and Libraries Working Group has released EBook Business Models: A Scorecard for Public Libraries . Here#39;s an excerpt: The Digital Content amp; Libraries Working Group (DCWG) began documenting and describing attributes of various licensing arrangements libraries may have with publishers in the August 2012 report Ebook Business Models for Public Libraries . Now we are pleased to share The Ebook Business Model Scorecard, which more fully examines the variables often seen in ebook license agreements or contracts. At the same time, the variables, when considered as a whole, can help libraries conceptualize licenses holistically instead of fixating on one aspect of a contract in isolation. | Google Books Bibliography (XHTML website; over 320 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post EBook Business Models: A Scorecard for Public Libraries appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3848	Yes	The Vanderbilt University Libraries are recruiting an Institutional Repository Coordinator. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : The Institutional Repository Coordinator assists with developing, maintaining, and promoting Vanderbilt Universityâ€™s institutional repository: Discover Archive . As a member of a scholarly communications team, the IR Coordinator will provide support for students, faculty, and staff members who would like to archive content in the IR. The IR Coordinator will assist the Director for Scholarly Communications with campus outreach, analyzing citations of open access publications and promoting the scholarly benefits of open access publication. The post Institutional Repository Coordinator at Vanderbilt University Libraries appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3849	Yes	I have worked with manuscripts for over 20 years now; as a librarian, academic and as a consultant helping others to digitise their collections. I have worked in various African countries with many great libraries and archives for over 10 years. I love Africa, I love the people, the culture, the heritage - their manuscript collections, archives and rock art are things of wonder. Not least because Africa is a continent that has been wracked by the three horsemen of the manuscript conservationists nightmares: war, pestilence and natural disaster. So it is with incredible sadness that I note today the loss of potentially thousands of manuscripts from the New Ahmed Baba Institute building in Mali. The story in the news (see Guardian   and Sky ) and online ( @howden_africa in particular) suggests that: "Islamist insurgents retreating from the ancient Saharan city of Timbuktu have set fire to a library containing thousands of priceless ancient manuscripts, some dating back to the 13th century, in what the town's mayor described as a "devastating blow" to world heritage. ( Guardian 28/1/2013 )" [Note: updates on the situation may be found at the bottom of this blog posting] Courtesy of Steve Kemper's blog In 2009, the new building of the Ahmed Baba Institute was officially opened in Mali. It is the product of a bi-lateral agreement between the South African and Malian governments. The building is one of several conditions of the agreement, all of which aim to promote the conservation, research and promotion of the manuscripts as African heritage. The new building not only contains " state-of-the-art resources for the proper storage and preservation of the manuscripts, but also has facilities for researchers, including conference rooms and a lecture theatre, a library and accommodation for researchers from abroad " . Courtesy of Steve Kemper's blog These images show some of the way#39;s the manuscripts were stored and also the conservation and preservation work that was going on at the Institute. Just a few miles from the Niger River Delta in Mali, Timbuktu at first appears as a labyrinth of single-story mud buildings - it is a final outpost before the Sahara Desert. Timbuktu is a cliche used to describe anywhere very remote or hard to reach. But it is also synonymous with heat, sand, dust, conflict and cultural riches. The institute is an essential bulwark against those who would seek to destroy or allow nature to destroy cultural artefacts of great value. Some estimates suggest 30,000 or more manuscripts in the collection. The Institute however is just one of the more than 60 private libraries holding ancient manuscripts, according to The Hidden Treasures Of Timbuktu , by scholars John O. Hunwick and Alida Jay Boye. “The historic manuscripts of Timbuktu,” they write, “are revolutionizing our understanding of Africa, increasing our knowledge of African history and unveiling the mysteries of this paradoxically famous yet almost unknown city.” There is also a fabulous report from the Ford Foundation that is well worth checking out ( Secrets of the Sahara by Christopher Reardon ). I quote the end of this report here: "The institute aims to bridge the gap between scholarship on Islam and scholarship on Africa. Scholars of Islam tend to ignore its development in Africa,Hunwick explains,despite the vast number of Muslims there. Likewise, many Africanists consider Islam marginal to their field. And scholars of religion largely overlook both the study of Islam in Africa and the study of religion in Africa in general. Through publications, symposia and fellowships for African researchers, the institute seeks to show that these fields are more closely intertwined than most scholars recognize. “We hope, too, to enlighten the general public as to the role that Islam has played in African societies,” Hunwick says, “and to the fact that much of Africa has long enjoyed literacy and an intellectual life—matters that may help to erase some of the unfortunate stereotypes about Africa… [Then] Timbuktu will cease to be seen just as a legendary fantasy, and will be recognized for what it really was—a spiritual and intellectual jewel inspired by the Islamic faith.” Indeed, the world these manuscripts reveal is one in which a tremendous volume of goods and ideas flowed across the Sahara in all directions—linking Europe, Africa and Arabia. If not for the families who have preserved these texts all these years, this vibrant past might have been lost forever.  “When we speak, the words disappear,” says Alpha Sané Ben Es Sayouti, who dreams of opening a private library to house his father’s collection. “But what is written should remain for all time.”  All this just highlights the absolute tragedy of the loss reported today through the burning down of several buildings in Timbuktu that included the Ahmed Baba Institute. War and conflict bring dangers to such collections and the human tragedy that surrounds this cultural tragedy must not be forgotten. In some ways this cultural tragedy may help those of us in the Northern Hemisphere, who live nicely homeostatically balanced lives of safety and relative security, to appreciate the fragility of culture and heritage and of human life. They all only survive because humans care for and value them. Without our attention, our care or our passion then they will die or wither away. Timbuktu teaches this stark lesson in both human and heritage terms. Digitisation and the Future Back about 8 years ago I gave some early advice to the Aluka project. They were looking to do work on digitising manuscripts in Timbuktu and I was able to advise on issues of digital camera's, imaging etc in such extremes of hot, dusty environments whether in tent, mud hut, library building or back of a truck. I also explored the idea of using vacuum packing as an affordable and feasible mechanism for storing manuscripts such that they did not further deteriorate in the Sarah regions. The Aluka project team went on to carry out projects in the region and I was happy to see this progress although I'd dearly have liked to travel out there and help in person. Aluka reports this about The Timbuktu Manuscripts Collection : In 2005, Aluka began a dialogue with members of library and scholarly communities, expressing its interest in helping to solve some of the challenges faced by libraries in Timbuktu. In January 2007, after a series of meetings and discussions in Cape Town, New York, and Timbuktu, Aluka entered into a formal partnership with SAVAMA-DCI (L’organisation Non Gouvernmentale pour la Sauvegarde et la Valorisation des Manuscrits pour la Defense de la Culture Islamique), a Timbuktu-based NGO whose mission is to help private manuscript libraries in Mali safeguard, preserve, and understand their intellectual treasures. As part of this project, Aluka also partnered with two academic groups, Northwestern University’s Advanced Media Production Studio (NUAMPS), led by Mr. Harlan Wallach, and the Tombouctou Mss Project at the University of Cape Town’s Department of Historical Studies. The first phase of this multilayered project is Aluka’s commitment to provide SAVAMA-DCI with the resources to catalogue 600 manuscripts from the Mamma Haidara and Imam Essayouti Libraries in Timbuktu and to digitise 300 of these manuscripts. 300 manuscripts - that's all that has been digitised. Out of the thousands lost only 300 have been imaged by Aluka and maybe a few more hundreds by other means. We have a task to do here. We have to be aware of the risk and rewards in digitising these manuscripts. I have helped to design and deliver the digitisation of hundreds of projects and millions of objects. I worked on the Dead Sea Scrolls digitisation . But it has to be said, it is these forgotten treasures that really stir my heart. Africa has been badly served by digitisation in the past, often it has been the subject of Western cultural imperialism of the worst and most unhelpful kind. Michelle Pickover, curator of manuscripts at the University of the Witwatersrand in South Africa, argues that ’ Cyberspace is not an uncontested domain. The digital medium contains an ideological base – it is a site of struggle. ’ The real challenges in collection digitisation in national memory institutions, she argues, are not technological or technical but social and political. Librarians and archivists are ‘ agents of social change ’ who, through their appraisal, selection, arrangement and retention of material, are able to become active participants in the production of social memory, and who, by the nature of their work, cannot help but ‘ privilege certain narratives and silence or marginalise others .’ (M. Pickover, ‘Negotiations, Contestations and Fabrications: The Politics of Archives in South Africa Ten Years After Democracy’, Innovation, 30 (2005), pp. 1–11.) As Rebecca Kahn and I state in our forthcoming book chapter "Building Futures – An Examination of The Role of Digital Collections in Shaping Identity in National Collections in Africa" for the SCOLMA 50th Anniversary book: Digital curators also have to labour with the understanding that, in young technological environments, many projects are funded because they are in the interest of a handful of people – often those individuals who are able to argue for funding for a particular project when the link between digitisation and ‘the public good’ is easily made. In reality this means that often a national-level information and knowledge-sharing strategy sets a precedent, and in these cases it is likely that the types of material that support this strategy become those types of material , be they  continue to be the focus of digitisation projects. History tells us that in a new technical environment – in the period before something becomes ‘business as usual’ – it is the passionate, the visionary, the expert and the collection owners who tend to define and decide what gets digitised. This can leave the beneficial stakeholders being ‘told’ what good digitised content is. In many countries with new and growing digitisation activities, the first materials produced become ‘digital icons’; because these are often the only digital content available, they become the sole version of the ‘truth’. However, these items are actually simply the result of a series of circumstantial choices and may only represent one perspective. It is, however, extremely difficult to change the precedent and trajectory set by past digitisation. As a result, it is often useful, when considering the relationship between digitisation and nation-building, to look at what activities are not taking place and what material is being left out. This can help to suggest a direction for digitisation and the projection of national identity in Africa... African libraries have a unique opportunity to build digital collections that reflect an indigenous African identity, not an imagined Westernised one. It is essential, though, that even as opportunities are opened up, we remain pragmatic about the constructed nature of these identities, or risk repeating the myth-creation of preceding generations.  Africa deserves better. We can save peoples lives with our money and our attention. We must also save the things that people have made over the centuries. The digital domain is an opportunity for the whole world to understand the sheer wonder and wealth of culture and heritage that Africa has. In the end we must make decisions about what we value. What we don#39;t value and protect will be starkly apparent by what we lose - such as these manuscripts in Timbuktu. PS. Update:  This article in the Economist predicted the possible destruction in Timbuktu  last year. PPS. New updates: Some hopeful news coming out of Mali . There will still be a huge loss but maybe some of the most valued items are safe. We will see. British Library press release on the situation. Dan Howden in the Independent 30th January 2013: And yet little has shocked the previously tolerant population as much as the violent assault on their multicultural history. Elhadj Djitteye, a resident who once made a living from guiding foreign visitors through the city’s great mausoleums recalled the confusion caused by the militants’ alien doctrine: “Many great powers like the Moroccans have dominated this city but these were the first people to tell us that our saints were blasphemy... They tried to break the heart of Timbuktu.” Latest news from the  Tombouctou Manuscripts Project (31st Jan 2013) : quot;By Monday night we finally managed to contact our colleague, Dr Mohamed Diagayeté, senior researcher at the Ahmad Baba Institue, now based in Bamako. He heard much the same reports that we heard. However, he added that the majority of the mss. of the Institute was still stored in the old building – opened in 1974 and on the other side of the town, from the new building.  He told us that the latest news about the new building, as of eight days before the flight of the Ansar Dine, was that the building had not been destroyed. He said that around 10,000 mss had been stored in the new building since there was no more space for the mss in the old building.  They were placed in trunks in the vaults of the new building.  Upstairs, where the restoration was taking place and boxes were made there were only a few mss.  After seeing Sky News footage, he says that the images were of the few mss upstairs waiting to be worked on by the conservators. However, by Tuesday morning, Dr. Mahmoud Zouber, Mali’s presidential aide on Islamic affairs and founding director of the Ahmad Baba Institute, told Time, that before the rebel take-over the manuscripts: “They were put in a very safe place. I can guarantee you. The manuscripts are in total security.” 
3850	Yes	The announcement is below is from Lyrasis on a great event that will be held at UF.   The Lyrasis site include a link for registration. DESCRIPTION: This one-day meeting, hosted by the University of Florida, in conjunction with LYRASIS and OCLC, will focus on the future of library and cultural heritage collections. We will discuss and evaluate important decisions that impact the sustainability and value of collections—what content to preserve digitally, which tools are best for this task, which partners to engage with collaboratively, and how best to promote collections in new formats. The sessions for this meeting have been chosen to share insights from digitization, preservation and content experts related to making and implementing these decisions. Date: Wednesday, February 20, 2013 Time: 10AM to 3PM Registration Fee: Free Lunch: A boxed lunch will be provided Location: University of Florida, Gainesville, FL George A. Smathers Library-Library East Room 1A Campus Map Agenda The Future of Collections: Creating and Managing Digital Content The University of Florida Gainesville, Florida February 20, 2013 9:00 AM- 10:00 AM Continental Breakfast/Registration/Introductory Remarks 10:00 AM-10:50 AM The Future of Music Collections in Libraries Matthew Moyer, Reference Librarian, Popular Media Department Andrew Coulon, Librarian, Integrated Library Services Jacksonville Public Library Matthew and Andrew will offer their insights on the future of music collections. 10:50-11:00 AM Break 11:00 -12:15 Virtual presentations Exploring a Collaborative Digitization Program:  Easy and Economical Digitization of Your Library’s Materials Laurie Gemmill Arp, LYRASIS LYRASIS has established the Digitization Collaborative to assist institutions with their digitization needs. Cultural heritage institutions can contribute to this digital collection and get their materials digitized at a low cost. This unique program enables small, medium and large cultural heritage institutions to gain the benefits of a coordinated effort without having to invest in creating their own infrastructure to make materials available online. Attendees will learn more about the program and have the opportunity to ask questions. The HBCU Library Alliance Digital Collections and OCLC CONTENTdm Angela Proctor, Southern University In this session, Angela will review the creation and maintenance of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Digital Collections. She will discuss her experiences with using OCLC’s CONTENTdm, and share some highlights from the collection at Southern University and in the broader HBCU Collections. 12:15-1:00 Boxed Lunch/ Group Discussion Lunch Discussion: Using Digital Collections for Outreach, Research, Reference, and Instruction Russell Palmer, LYRASIS Russell will lead an informal lunchtime discussion on these four key areas relating to digital collections. The audience will share ideas that have worked for them in each key area. 1:00-1:50 Using Digital Collections for Genealogy Research: Best Practices and Resources Sylvia Ashwell, Librarian, Alachua County Library District Pat Griggs, Alachua County Library District Digital collections are not only great resources for local history but can also be useful in genealogical research as well. Sylvia Ashwell, Pat Griggs, and Bobby Powell from the Alachua County Library District (Gainesville, FL) will talk about current trends in the use of digital collections in genealogical research as well as other online resources that can help genealogists and genealogy librarians keep up-to-date on what’s new in the world of family history research. 1:50-2:00 Break 2:00-2:50 Collaborating with Digital Library Foundations Suzan Alteri, University of Florida Libraries The Baldwin Library of Historical Children’s Literature is the second largest contributor to the International Children’s Digital Library, a free online collection of children’s books designed specifically for use by children to encourage a love of reading and increased literacy. Suzan Alteri, Curator of the Baldwin Library, will speak about the collaborative relationship between the Baldwin Library and the International Children’s Digital Library and its importance for the future of special collections. Ms. Alteri will also discuss the Baldwin Library of Historical Children’s Literature and share some of its treasures. 2:50-3:20 OCLC ArchiveGrid John Nemmers, University of Florida Libraries In this session John will tell us more about using and contributing to ArchiveGrid. ArchiveGrid connects you with primary source material held in archives, special collections, and manuscript collections around the world. You will find historical documents, personal papers, family histories, and more. ArchiveGrid also helps researchers contact archives to request information, arrange a visit, and order copies. 3:20-3:30 Wrap up/Summary 
3851	Yes	 Three Charlotte leaders share how they’re working to increase student achievement, help families engage more deeply in their child’s education and develop digital literacy skills. The following is part of an article that looks at  Knight’s grantmaking in Charlotte . Brandi Williams is a community engagement coordinator at  Project L.I.F.T , a  public-private partnership  supported by Knight  to accelerate student achievement in nine of Charlotte’s lowest-performing schools. What outreach efforts are you prioritizing?  B.W. The first priority is how we engage parents.  We want to make sure our families have a great experience at our schools because we believe they’ll become the best advocates for the work we are doing.  In January, we’ll engage parents in telling their stories. We’re redoing our website to allow for a blog. We want parents to share the success of their students on their personal social media pages with the hashtag created for the program: #ready2LIFT. What issues in the community do people care about the most? B.W.: It’s simple: they care about the education of kids. They want to make sure that the work we are doing will help the kids we serve compete.  We have to provide the entire family with services to make this effort a success. What are some of the most significant barriers to getting people in the L.I.F.T. zone involved and engaged? B.W.: Many times students are dealing with issues of homelessness, drug abuse and disengaged parents.  All parents love their kids. They just don#39;t show their love the way we would define it and sometimes their issues keep them from being fully engaged. How do you combat those barriers? B.W.: We think like them and leave judgment at the door to work to give them what they need.  This means meeting them where they are, building trust and helping them define a path that is in line with their dreams and life mission. You#39;re from Charlotte originally. What does it mean to you personally to be doing this work in your community? B.W.: It means everything to me! I grew up not only in Charlotte but right in the Northwest corridor. I lived many of the challenges the students who are in our schools live and I had angels that helped me along the way. It feels great to be able to do the same for these kids.   David Jessup   is the U.S. project manager for  One Laptop Per Child  and oversees the introduction of the XO laptops to schools in the Project L.I.F.T Zone. He is a former Teach for America volunteer in Miami. How is excitement building toward the day in February when the students get their laptops? D.J.: The excitement is contagious. Facilitators are modeling laptop lessons, teachers are working in small groups with XO laptops and students are constantly stopping to ask me, quot;When are we getting our laptops?quot; 
3852	Yes	 Inside a bright sunlit classroom, students hunch over their laptops. They’re laughing and smiling as they create an interactive story with images, sounds and text. One girl happily helps a friend take a digital photo of himself for the multimedia timeline. Charlotte At A Glance Founded:  1768 City Population:  751,087 Regional Population:  2,442,564 Median Household Income:  $48,670 Diversity Demographics Caucasian/White:  50% African-American:  35% Hispanic:  13.1% Age Demographics  under 25: 35% 25-54: 49% 55+: 15.9% Knight active grants portfolio: 12 projects totaling $18,113,00 It’s a typical college scene. But this isn’t a college. It’s a second-grade classroom at Druid Hills Elementary School in Charlotte, N.C. The students are inventing their own digital version of Little Red Riding Hood. They’re seven years old. The elementary school is one of nine in a West Charlotte initiative called  Project L.I.F.T . The five-year, $55 million public-private initiative is designed to speed student progress in some of the city’s lowest-performing schools. Knight Foundation announced $4 million in support last fall. Part of the foundation’s funding  will provide laptops to all Kindergarten-through-fifth grade students  in the Project L.I.F.T schools. The students making themselves the heroes in Little Red Riding Hood -- and the teachers who plan the lessons that turn computers into teaching tools -- are the pioneers. Most of the 3,200 laptops will come in late February and “the excitement is contagious,” said  One Laptop Per Child  project manager David Jessup, who is overseeing their introduction. The project is a key part of Knight’s strategy to improve Charlotte’s future by infusing access and engagement into a potentially transformative community initiative. The city has long viewed itself as a “New South” city. It takes great pride in being progressive and having residents working together. Knight’s grantmaking strategy reflects that. The foundation’s education projects connect with each other and the community at large. Technology is one of the pillars on which Project L.I.F.T is built. Increasing digital skills and digital access helps students but also their parents. “The focus is on increasing resident collaboration and decision-making,” said Knight’s longtime Program Director in Charlotte,  Susan Patterson . “Project LIFT is a community effort where collaboration already occurs, but ensuring families and residents in the area actively participate will be critical to its long-term success.” One example: Knight’s  Project L.I.F.T  grant paid for two coordinators to work with the schools, nonprofits and directly with families and parents, helping the community become more involved in the education of its children. Coordinator Brandi Williams says this is crucial: “While there are barriers to getting parents and families engaged…we [meet] them where they are, build trust and help them define a path that is in line with their dreams and life mission.” Full participation, whether on-line or offline, is often difficult for those  living in low-income neighborhoods, like those in the LIFT zone. Charlotte is the largest city in North Carolina and its tremendous growth (from 2000-2010, the  population increased by 65 percent ) has led to the wider economic disparity common to urban America. This blocks access to the technology people need to be successful. 
3853	Yes	 Historical objects are one way for everyone to preserve and share unique stories; and museum collections in particular offer a treasure trove of such stories for interested researchers to tap into.  Even the everyday objects that we don’t give much thought to are often of interest to someone, as turned out to be the case with our latest research visitor, Meaghan Reddick, a candidate for the Smithsonian Master’s Program in the History of Decorative Arts at George Mason University.  Meaghan is doing research on eighteenth and nineteenth-century shoes and is looking at the role labels played in marketing and fashion retail. She contacted us to see if we had any shoes in our collection that had surviving original maker’s labels from the period.  At the time, this seemed to me quite a tall order, given that shoes were made to be worn (and worn out), but until you start looking, you never know what you are going to find and it turned out we had more than I expected.  Our collection contains ten pairs of shoes and two single shoes that still have their original labels.  This doesn’t sound like a lot, but on older shoes a label is a rare find, and our little group spans the late eighteenth up to the mid-nineteenth centuries, which was a boon for Meaghan. Four of these pairs had Paris labels, which is not surprising since, then as now, France was one of the world’s fashion capitals. The rest were from Philadelphia and had labels from a nice range of  makers and retailers, including  Mrs. R. Smith, Ladies’ Boot and Shoe Manufacturer of 21 North 6 th  Street, Martin Rice of 10 Second Street, J. Neill, David Fuller, and Henry Wireman.  Perhaps the most fascinating find of the day was two late 1700s shoes with Philadelphia labels, both of which have a Delaware story to tell. One of these shoes has a label in excellent condition for “Ebenezer Breed, Philadelphia.”  Breed, a Quaker born in the shoe-trade town of Lynn, MA, came to Philadelphia in 1786 and soon became one of the leading shoe dealers in the city.  This white silk wedding shoe originally belonged to Dorcas Armitage Lewis, daughter of Frances Elizabeth Cooch and John Armitage, a biscuit baker.  Dorcas was born on November 17, 1762 and married Phillip Lewis II of Kent County, DE on January 1, 1791.  They lived on the east side of Academy Street in Newark DE on land now owned by the University of Delaware and were the parents of five children, only one of whom made it to adulthood.  Dorcas herself died on February 24, 1800, probably as a result of childbirth.  A sad story, but her shoe remained a family relic until it came here. Our other shoe, a fancy gold-tone leather high-heeled shoe, originally belonged to Rachel McCleary, the adopted daughter of Governor Richard Bassett, a Revolutionary War veteran and delegate to the Constitutional Convention of 1787.  Unfortunately, only half of the label for this shoe has survived in legible condition so we cannot be 100% certain of its maker at this point, but we were still able to clearly read “Eben…Philadelphia”  (it would be really exciting if the same label in better condition were to turn up elsewhere on another shoe and help us figure it out!) This shoe was part of Rachel’s 1767 wedding outfit when she married Dr. Joshua Clayton (1744-1798), an aide and surgeon to George Washington at the Battle of the Brandywine and later Governor of Delaware from 1793-1796.  The shoe descended in her family until it was donated to us by her great, great, great granddaughter. It was interesting to get a glimpse into the prominent role that Philadelphia played in serving the needs of the fashion-conscious here in the First State.  Meaghan’s research is still in the early stages but it will be interesting to see how it progresses. We look forward to hearing more about what she discovers.  Jennifer 
3854	Yes	Welcome to SkeletonWalks , a collaborative bioarchaeological blog by two PhD students looking to discuss current research topics in bioarchaeology and address matters concerning graduate student life. SkeletonWalks is maintained by Brittany Walter , a doctoral student at University of South Carolina , and Carrie Healy , a doctoral student at University of Arkansas . While, completing our Master’s degrees at University of Central Florida we discovered that we worked well together and wished to continue that collaboration despite moving on to different schools for our PhDs.  Though we come from backgrounds focused mostly in forensic anthropology, our research interests have somewhat diverged since starting our doctoral degrees to dental anthropology (Carrie) and paleodemography (Brittany). We decided to create this blog because we both turn to academic blogs as a means of keeping us up to date on current topics in biological anthropology and inform on new, interesting articles that might have otherwise slipped our attention. Rather than sitting back and watching the discussion, we want to contribute to the ever growing online community of biological anthropology.  Because of our differing research interests, we hope to offer a well-rounded blog that is beneficial to colleagues in the field, in addition to providing a learning experience for us at the same time. The plan is to share one post every week or two concerning recently published articles, topics, or issues that are being discussed within biological anthropology.  Also, we plan to incorporate topics concerning graduate student life.  Because we are new in our contributions to the academic internet, we welcome constructive critiques and insights into the comments section of this blog- this will not only ensure our understanding of bioarchaeological work, but will also help us build on our roles as contributors and reviewers in the field. Please feel free to contact us concerning anything that you feel may be relevant to include in SkeletonWalks because we are always up for suggestions and guest posts. Happy reading! Brittany and Carrie 
3855	Yes	Lots of interesting bits in Redesigning Google: how Larry Page engineered a beautiful revolution . The thesis: “We went to Google looking for the person responsible for the new design direction, but the strange answer we got is that such a person doesn’t exist. Instead, thanks to a vision laid out by a small team of Google designers, each product team is finding its way to a consistent and forward-looking design language thanks to a surprising process…they’re talking to each other.” Also note that the mandate to focus on design came down from Larry Page himself…without support from the executive team these sorts of things have failed in the past at Google. And anecdotally, it might be hard to underestimate the publicity value of this shift for Google and their recruiting efforts…they are now seen as a much more design-friendly place to work. hat tip: @anandrajaram FYI: I’m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post Redesigning Google appeared first on Bokardo . 
3856	Yes	A Toilet Training Koan — Some time ago I lent my voice to the audio guide for a Koine Greek curriculum for kids. Around the time it was released, we found out a family friend#39;s then-three year old had taken to listening to the CD at bedtime, not for the Greek but just because he liked the sound of my voice. At the same time, the boy#39;s mother was struggling to get him through the final throes of potty training. She wondered if perhaps my tranquil timbre might help matters. So I recorded a potty koan for the boy. I don#39;t want to claim credit,... ( read more )
3857	Yes	 Image by Flickr user Sarah Blizzard (CC Licensed) Like body ornamentations, the body itself is a symbol for beliefs, hierarchies, values, and social identity, and is therefore an important piece in the puzzle of the past. Funerary practices involve not only burying the body with symbolic and ritual objects, but also the manipulation of the corpse for burial and the preparation of the grave site.  In bioarchaeology, the corporeality, or material nature, of the body is gradually being appreciated as a canvas on which physical and social inscription can be interpreted after long spans of time. Traditionally, archaeologists considered the body as a public display, allowing them to make direct interpretations concerning body ornamentations, ignoring the body itself. It was not until 2005 with Rosemary Joyce’s well-known paper regarding the body as a symbol that the first formal writing compiling a comprehensive review of research that recognized the body as a symbol of the past. Since then, several bioarchaeologists and archaeologists have offered research regarding the importance in interpreting the symbolic value of the body in understanding the society, including a recent article by anthropologists at the INCUAPA in Argentina. Martinez and colleagues (2012) look at the corporeal body and symbolic patterns that could be determined from human remains in their research of Late Holocene hunter-gatherers in Argentina.  The authors examined funerary patterns and the corporeal modification conducted by the society on the deceased, focusing on the disarticulation, burial, reburial, and intentional coloring of the remains.  By incorporating symbolic trends found among the human remains of two separate sites, the authors were able to conclude that these groups belonged to the same socio-cultural system and shared similar worldviews.  Moreover, the authors used the body as a means of interpreting the societal changes that occurred during a significant transition change, concluding that the corporeal body was used as a medium to maintain group identity. Corpse manipulation and modification by living individuals can be influenced by social, environmental, and historical factors.  The authors explain that the changes evident on the recovered remains coincide with the changing social organization of the people in the Colorado River Basin at the time.  During the Late Holocene, the population was considerably smaller with higher mobility and short-term settlements, practicing burials that were traditionally primary.  However, as population density increased, this lessened the residential mobility.  Interactions between neighboring communities occurred, resulting in the establishment of formal disposal areas and the incorporation of secondary burials into funerary ritual.  By the Final Late Holocene, burial practices become more complex, with more anatomical units per bundle, patterns in bone arrangement and inclusion, and painting of the bones with pigment. The authors explain that the change to more formal and complex funerary rituals required a large amount of work investment and must have included the entire community. Moreover, they show how these changes in mortuary practices coincided with changes in longer inhabitance of times, a reduction in the residential component of mobility, diversification and intensification of subsistence patterns, and innovations in lithic technology. Though I would have liked the authors to have offered more interpretations on the actual modification of the body itself, rather than the intense focus of the consistencies between mortuary patterns and societal changes, the article is a good example of  integrating bioarchaeological research into archaeological analysis from other fields to corroborate and support hypotheses concerning past societal processes.  The authors consider possible environmental changes, landscape use and reuse, and the role of identity in the past as a response to drastic societal changes. Martinez and colleagues contribute to the perspective of the social aspects of corporealities, recognizing the body within the archaeological record as a material body.  Like other materialities, the body is not static and goes through changes.  Fahlander’s view (2008) of the materiality of death recognizes that death is both a social and theological practice, rooted in materiality.  Since mortuary rituals define and develop identities and retain social relationships and collective memory, understanding the management of the body is crucial for elucidating the past society’s ability to maintain and strengthen group identities.  Martinez et al. recognize this necessity and provide an article that appreciates the material body and its efficacy in being interpreted a symbol to understand larger processes of the past. [Brittany S. Walter] ———– Fahlander F, Oestigaard T. 2008.  The materiality of death: Bodies, burials, beliefs. In: Fahlander F, Oestogard T, editors. The materiality of death. Oxford: Archaeopress. Pp. 1-16. Joyce, RA. 2005. Archaeology of the body. Ann Rev Anthropol 34:139-158. Martinez G, Flensborg G, Bayala PD. 2012.  Human corpse manipulation and the body as a symbol: A case study from the eastern Pampa-Patagonia transition (Argentina) during the final late Holocene. J Anthropol Arch 31:215-226. 
3858	Yes	I don’t live in Seattle full time right now. I’ve been bouncing between cities and assignments since November of 2012. I want to be home, badly. I’ve got a great housing situation lined up (likely starting in March) but I’m not bringing it enough money right now to make the move. I need a job in the Seattle area, or a very lovely telecommuting contract. I expect a job in the Seattle area would be far more possible. If you have leads, places to recommend or suggestions of good employment agencies, I’m open to hearing any of them. I’ve been papering agencies and openings like mad, but I only have so many hours around current contracts to hunt for leads on my own. I’m primarily looking for writing/editing, but if leads say I need to go back to TA work at a pre-school, I’ll happily go back to doing that. If you can help in any way: leave me a comment, use the contact form, look me up on Twitter. I want to be home, but I need help to make it happen. 
3859	Yes	 Doug Belshaw I have a confession to make. It’s a shameful, dark secret that I fear may be common to many adults around the world. And, when I was teaching, it was certainly one that I saw shared by many students I came into contact with. It’s something you don’t tend to admit to -- especially as an educator. What is this thing that I’m reticent to admit? I’m not sure how I learn best. Do I learn best by listening to podcasts? What about by studying diagrams? I seem to find those useful. I dropped out half-way through the Coursera gamification MOOC even though I found it really interesting. Why was that? I find taking notes sometimes helpful and sometimes not. And why is it that I can fail over and over again in a game like Super Hexagon but keep on playing it until I eventually succeed? How much of this is driven by what’s intrinsic to me, and how much of this is dependent upon context? Theories such as learning styles and multiple intelligences come and go. They present some important ideas around student empowerment and the personalisation of learning in an interesting way but, to my mind, they lack explanatory power. To borrow a term from Alec Patton they’re the ‘sizzle’ to the steak. I can read literature in these areas until the cows come home and still not know how I learn best. We may need theory, but we also need application . While I’d struggle to tell you how I learn best, there is one question that I’d always be able to answer enthusiastically: What would you like to learn next? Right now I’m learning JavaScript and have plans to give Spanish another go. I should probably pick up those guitar lessons again soon as well. Thankfully we live in a time when it’s trivially easy to gain access to resources and to learning activities. The problem is finding out the ones that work best for you . Perhaps that’s why we carry around in our pockets devices that can access pretty much the sum total of human knowledge yet use them to LOL at amusing pictures of cats. What are the barriers here? I’d suggest there are three main ones: 1 Curriculum - the series of activities that build towards a learning goal 2 Credentials - the ability to show what you know 3 Community - the cohort of peers you feel you are part of, along with access to ‘experts’ For those who have been paying attention, especially in the world of Higher Education, the first thing you will think of will be ‘MOOCs’ or Massive Open Online Courses. Because of the various flavours of MOOCs I find the term problematic as a catch-all. Instead, I want to drill a down a bit deeper into interest-based learning and return to these three points at the end. I came up with the diagram at the top of this article while iterating the latest version of the Web Literacies white paper I’m working on in my role at Mozilla. Because of the messiness of learning it’s an imperfect abstraction, but I hope it serves to illustrate a few things: Many subjects and ideas link together Leveling-up in one area can mean also leveling-up in another You don’t have to learn everything about a subject The learner (with some prompting) can decide the learning goal It’s OK to jump around a bit while learning This isn’t a learning theory, nor is it a psychological theory. It’s not a prescription for learning in all places and at all times. Instead, it’s an approach we’re using at Mozilla to try and get people hooked on improving their Web Skills, Competencies and Literacies. We’re seeking partners to help us finalise a Web Literacies framework and then come up with a badgeable range of activities for learners to be able to level-up towards their own goal. We’ve already made a start with some Webmaker badges . In practice, this means that learners don’t have to wring their hands wondering how they learn best. It’s an approach that says “ Hey, got five minutes? Try this! ” Of course, we hope five minutes turns into ten minutes, and then an hour. It’s an unashamed use of game mechanics to draw people into the learning process. Some people object to gamifying learning. Whilst there’s an element of “the way I learned was good enough for me” (see, for example, the comments on this New York Times piece ) there are more thoughtful critiques. Jane McGonigal, a well-known games designer and TED presenter , tackles this head-on in her seminal book Reality is Broken: Why Games Make Us Better and How They Can Change the World . Citing the observation by the nineteenth-century physicist Lord Kelvin that “If you cannot measure it, you cannot improve it” McGonigal talks about how game-like feedback systems can focus our efforts and motivate us: “Real-time data and quantitative benchmarks are the reason why gamers get consistently better at virtually any game they play: their performance is consistently measured and reflected back to them, with advancing progress bars, points, levels, and achievements. It’s easy for players to see exactly how and when they’re making progress. This kind of instantaneous, positive feedback drives players to try harder and to succeed at more difficult challenges. That’s why it’s worth considering making things we already love more gamelike. It can make us better at them, and help us set our sights higher.”                                                                               (Jane McGonigal, Reality is Broken ) One thing you can expect from Mozilla in 2013 is a Webmaker dashboard for learners to gain access to the real-time data and quantitative benchmarks McGonigal mentions. You can find more about this in an excellent post by my colleague Jess Klein. For more about our vision for Web Literacies as an open standard try this post by Erin Knight . And if you want to help with building out the Web Literacies framework and/or to contribute some learning activities, get in touch with Carla Casilli or myself ! Finally, how does this help with the three points I mentioned earlier? How does it help with curriculum , credentials and community ? We haven’t finished working out all the details, but I hope you can begin to see how our approach will help address some of the barriers here. By providing a range of interest-based learning activities with the help of partners we’re avoiding a prescribed curriculum. And, as I explain in a bit more detail in the Web Literacies white paper , by introducing peer assessment when learners level-up from Web Skills to Web Competencies (and self-reflection when levelling-up from Web Competencies to Web Literacies) credentials become meaningful . But what about community? Where does that fit in? Well, as already shown by P2PU it’s possible to have both a synchronous and asynchronous approach to challenge-based learning activities. And examples such as DIY.org , Learni.st and Treehouse show us how communities can form around places where people go to learn new things. I’d love to hear your feedback about interest-based learning. What are your thoughts about this approach? Do you have any suggestions? Please do comment below or get in touch with me directly: doug lt;atgt; mozillafoundation lt;dotgt; org. Banner image credit: Doug Belshaw http://www.flickr.com/photos/dougbelshaw/8344676771/in/photostream 
3860	Yes	Another tutorial video for your patrons to help them learn how to use your OPAC. This video will walk then through creating private lists in your OPAC. As always, if you have an idea for a video, please just let me know and I’ll add it to my list of things to record. The post Private Lists in Koha 3.6 appeared first on What I Learned Today... . Related posts: Changing my Password in Koha 3.6 Leaving Comments in Koha 3.6 Creating Routing Lists in Koha 3.4 
3861	Yes	Lush Quests Brings Training and Knowledge Together with Memset In their common endeavor to engage its employees, enterprises have been slowly embracing the concept of gamifying employee training programs and handmade cosmetics firm Lush is no exception. Lush’s training program, Lush Quests bears the markings of a gamified training system where employees are introduced to Lush’s brand and products through an interactive story filled with challenges and rewards. Upon completion of the narrative, users are then given a 10 minute quiz to reaffirm what they have learned from the material. Thus far, over 2,000 Lush employees have completed this online training program. These features do seem rather standard for enterprise training gamification in comparison to other training series in the sector. However, what sets apart Lush’s training system compared to other firms is their ability to quickly scale and distribute their program with the application of cloud computing platform, Memset . Using infrastructure from British cloud provider Memset, Lush Quests is distributed through the provider’s private cloud platform. With the program’s user interface powered by common REST-based web services, it enables Lush to adjust its online training infrastructure accordingly to real time demands of the system. In other words, Lush Quests could accommodate varying user demands without having to compromise additional resources. As part of International Support for Lush cosmetics and the individual responsible for the IT set up of Lush Quests, Richy Baxter-Freeman explains: “We can monitor traffic and performance via Memset’s control panel and easily scale up or down as load patterns fluctuate, which means we only pay for what we need in terms of compute infrastructure. In addition, we benefit from the maintenance, support, and deployment automation provided by Memset to reduce our operational costs.” Besides the flexibility in scaling its system demands, Memset’s cloud platform provided Lush Quests with a centralized SQL database. It acts as an analytics system, used to store application data and training results while images and video can be leveraged across user interfaces. In turn, it provides direct feedback to Lush’s training team and upper management in monitoring and evaluating their employee’s training progress. Developers could also utilize the input data and impart it into their five Miniservers, virtual servers with dedicated resources. Each miniserver hosts a specific language version of Lush Quest which includes German, French, Italian, Spanish and English. Baxter Freeman elaborates how, “Using Memset’s cloud service has enabled us to quickly roll out the program to other countries faster than we anticipated. We’ve been able to take snapshots of the Miniserver and recreate it quickly in the other languages required…”. With these two features working in sync, Lush Quests could be distributed across an international scope without having to deal with language barriers. As firms are now operating in an international circuit where its employees consist of diverse cultural backgrounds and speaking different languages, Lush cosmetics utilization of cloud computing is keeping itself ahead of its competitors. It remains imperative that enterprises strive to make great gamification systems by continuously creating and reiterating new content for its users. Nevertheless, it goes to show how content value can be magnified when firms have the capability and flexibility to scale and expand gamified training services.  A high-value gamified system would be rendered redundant if enterprises only engage a limited number of their target audience. via  TechWorld --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Lush Quests Combines Gamified Training and Cloud Computing appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3862	Yes	Hi, everyone! This year’s Town Meeting will be Monday, January 28, from 8:30 – 10:00 PDT, in room 302 of the Convention Center.  We will be streaming audio, and we welcome your participation via IRC and a Google Doc.  Here are the details: LITA’s Ustream channel Because of the wifi challenges, the Town Meeting is a bit broken up on the recordings. The recording is in three parts, but almost the entire thing is available. The challenges of streaming and recording at conferences seemingly never end. Thanks for your patience and interest. Part the First Video streaming by Ustream Part the Next Video streaming by Ustream Part the Last Video streaming by Ustream Live video from your iPhone using Ustream IRC: #litatm (instructions below) Google Doc Please tag your tweets with #litatm Please note the chat will be logged for future reference and projected in the room for the benefit of those without devices, as will the Google Doc. Join us in IRC chat. Never done IRC before? It’s easy! Go to :  http://webchat.freenode.net/ Type in your nickname of choice. Type in #litatm in Channels. You don’t need to click the Auth to services box. You do need to fill in the CAPTCHA. Some codes will scroll through the status tab, and then a #litatm tab will open. You are in! Say hi and chat with us When you want to leave type /quit Type /me to refer yourself as your nick in the 3rd person.  (If you type “/me likes this”, it will show up as “ yournickname likes this”.) lt;Igt;These draw heavily from Bohyun Kim’s IRC instructions. Thanks, Bohyun!  And thanks to Andromeda Yelton, too! lt;/igt; 
3863	Yes	I am honoured to announce I will serve as a member of the LibTech Committee of the Open Library of Humanities. I am humbled to be in such great company. Continue reading » 
3864	Yes	lorddaiggsta:meme-meme:USB with anti-theft technology.Plus you can enjoy baffling colleagues and friends by retrieving a tampon from your bag and jamming it into your computer. Continue reading → 
3865	Yes	 This is a guest post by Chris Adams , in the Repository Development Center, technical lead for the World Digital Library at the the Library of Congress. Like many people who work with digital imagery, I’ve been looking forward to the JPEG-2000 image format for a long time due to solid technical advantages: superior compression performance for both lossless masters and lossy access images, progressive decoding and multiple resolutions and tiling. Having a single format which is flexible enough to satisfy both preservation and access requirements is appealing, particularly at a time when many organizations are being forced to reconcile rising storage costs with shrinking budgets. So, given clear technical advantages, why do many of my fellow software developers seem distinctly uneasy about using JPEG-2000 ? Johan van der Knijff has summarized a range of concerns but I want to focus on the last point from his guest post at the Wellcome Library’s JPEG-2000 blog: According to [David Rosenthal], the availability of working open-source rendering software is much more important, and he explains how formats with open source renderers are, for all practical purposes, immune from format obsolescence…. Perhaps the best way to ensure sustainability of JPEG 2000 and the JP2 format would be to invest in a truly open JP2 software library, and release this under a free software license. The most common concern I’ve heard about JPEG-2000 is the lack of high-quality tools and particularly support within the open-source world. I believe this is a critical concern for preservation. 1. Our future ability to read a file is a function of how widely it is used . Some formats achieve this through openness: it is highly unlikely that we will lose the ability to display JPEG files because they are ubiquitous and there are many high-quality implementations which are regularly used to encode and decode files produced by other implementations. ( Adoption is one of the Library’s factors for assessing the sustainability of digital collections). Some proprietary formats have achieved similar levels of confidence through pervasive market share: while it’s always possible for a single vendor to discontinue a product this would have significant repercussions and create strong demand from many organizations around the world for tools to migrate their orphaned content. I would argue that JPEG-2000 is currently in the unfortunate position of having limited use outside of a few niches and the majority of users depend on proprietary software but might not represent a sufficiently large market to support multiple high-quality implementations. How likely is it that JP2 constitutes even 1% of the new images created every day? The lack of browser support ensures that JP2 is almost non-existent on the web and thus is not a factor in most software selection decisions. 2. The format is quite complex. Complexity significantly increases the barrier to entry for new implementations, particularly given the challenge of not only implementing the entire standard but reaching competitive performance as well. ( Transparency is another key sustainability factor). As a rough estimate of the relative complexity consider the size of two open-source JPEG-2000 implementations versus the entire Python Imaging Library, which supports several dozen formats as well as a general-purpose image processing toolkit (Core lines of code, generated using David A. Wheeler’s SLOCCount): OpenJPEG C 49,892 libjasper C 26,458 PIL C 12,493, Python: 9,229 3. Limited resources for compliance testing implementations . The complexity of the format and the restricted specification provide many opportunities for developers to produce malformed files or fail to decode correct but obscure options. In my primary role as the technical lead for the World Digital Library I’ve been asked to process files in most common formats created by the wide variety of software used by our many partners. JPEG-2000 has been by far the most common format requiring troubleshooting and, disturbingly, in most cases the files had already processed by at least one other program before a problem attracted closer inspection. While there have been some failures caused by programs which do not correctly support the entire format, more frequently the failure has been caused by a program applying stricter validation checks and rejecting a file with minor errors which had not been reported by the other tools used earlier in our processing. Problems in this JP2 file are only evident at certain zoom levels. Different implementations would produce blank areas, random noise or the shifted fragment seen above. No GUI tool tested produced any warning for the malformed tile structure. This is particularly disturbing when you consider the possibility that a file which is was viewable today could become problematic later after a bug is fixed! A Role for Open Source Over the last decade, open-source software has become pervasive as users spend considerable time working directly in open-source applications or, far more commonly, using applications which rely on open-source libraries. This is currently a problem from the perspective of JPEG-2000 as the most widespread open-source implementation unfortunately has some compatibility issues and is considerably slower than the modern commercial implementations. The good news is that many, many users — including those of several popular, high-volume websites — are using open-source libraries; targeted improvements there would benefit many people around the world. The need for improved open-source support has also been touched upon before on this blog in Steve Puglia’s summary of the 20011 JPEG 2000 summit. Browser Support is Critical Users are increasingly using browsers to perform tasks that used to be considered solely the domain of traditional desktop applications. Photos which used to be stored and viewed locally are now increasingly being uploaded to social networks and photo sharing sites, a trend which will continue as HTML5 makes increasingly advanced web applications possible. In practice, this means that any image format which cannot be viewed directly in the average web browser will become a support burden for site operators and it becomes correspondingly tempting to adopt a storage format such as PNG or JPEG since most images will eventually need to be transcoded into those formats for display. This is not in itself a threat to traditional preservation but it’s an additional complication that needs to be dealt with as internal file management applications are increasingly web based and it makes development of access services more expensive, again providing an incentive to simplify access at the expense of storage costs. Of the popular browsers, only one supports JPEG-2000. For wider adoption, requirements for browsers to support JPEG-2000 will need to be detailed (one example is here ). Potential Use of OpenJPEG OpenJPEG is emerging as a possible solution for many of these problems, particularly as the recently released version 2.0 added support for streaming and tiled decoding which deliver some of the greatest benefits relative to other formats. For applications such as Chronicling America which need to serve 60+ tile and thumbnail requests per second, this is far more of a limiting factor than the time required to decode the entire master image and was previously unavailable to open-source developers. Conformance Testing In addition to the standard JPEG 2000 conformance suite the OpenJPEG project has been developing their own test suite. An obvious area where the preservation community could assist would be in contributing not only examples of test images which exercise features which are important to us but also known-bad images for which tools should issue compliance warnings. The preservation community should review existing suites and contribute additional freely-available tests to help validate implementations, with a focus on features which are less commonly used in other industries as well as strong conformance testing and improved detection and reporting of non-compliant files to help guide implementations towards stronger interoperability. 1/28/2013: Added additional information to introduction. 
3866	Yes	 Image source: http://cogdogblog.com/2012/07/17/mooc-hysertia/ You may have heard that Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are going to revolutionize and/or destroy higher education as we know it. A MOOC, in case you need a quick primer, is a free online course, generally offered through a university or through one of a small handful of educational technology companies (Coursera, Udacity, and edX are the most prominent these days). The goal of the MOOC model is to open up education–to make it possible for unprecedented numbers of people to gain access to college-level knowledge. As a recent New York Times article notes , The shimmery hope is that free courses can bring the best education in the world to the most remote corners of the planet, help people in their careers, and expand intellectual and personal networks. Of course, not everyone is quite so enamored with the MOOC model. Media scholar Douglas Rushkoff, for example, worries that the MOOC craze reduces education to the mere acquisition of skills. Rushkoff explains: For pure knowledge acquisition, it’s hard to argue against [an increased emphasis on online learning models], especially in an era that doesn’t prioritize enrichment for its own sake. But it would be a mistake to conclude that online courses fulfill the same role in a person’s life as a college education, just as it would be an error to equate four years of high school with some online study and a GED exam. Rushkoff’s view has its own problems: For one thing, it assumes that the goal of a college education is, and should be, less about credentialing workers and more about crafting people . Which is fine–except that the “crafting people” model has baked right into it a set of assumptions about what makes a “good” and “educated” person, and it turns out that these assumptions align pretty closely with Eurocentric, masculinist, and middle class ideals . Which is fine, unless you don’t happen to believe that those ideals are necessarily the ones we should want to bake right into our people. Still, Rushkoff’s point is worth considering. What does it mean to embrace a higher education model that emphasizes knowledge acquisition over acculturation, that emphasizes quantity (thousands, perhaps millions of students learning about science and math and business and writing!) over quality (very little interaction with instructors, and sometimes very little interaction with classmates!)? Here’s another reason to worry: Recent evidence suggests a deep gender disparity in who teaches MOOCs. Lisa Martin and Barbara Walter explain in an LA Times op-ed that the vast majority of MOOC classes are developed and taught by men–even when the classes are in more woman-heavy areas like the humanities. They explain: One consortium, Coursera, offered 205 courses with named instructors at one point this month. Only 34 are taught by female instructors; 157 are taught by male instructors; the remaining 14 courses are taught by groups of both men and women. Even in fields in which women are a majority of doctoral recipients and recent faculty hires, such as the humanities, the vast majority (72%) of classes at Coursera are taught by men. Udacity, another major provider of MOOCs, has almost no women as sole or lead instructors in its course offerings. The gender disparity becomes even more obvious when we look at individual universities. At Princeton, for example, 33% of the permanent faculty members on campus are female, yet none of the courses offered by Princeton through Coursera are taught by women. At the University of Pennsylvania , women on campus also represent 33% of the faculty, but they teach only 12.5% of the courses offered through Coursera. Only MOOCs offered by Stanford, which has 25% female faculty, come close to a representative level. The authors note that since the selection process for MOOC course instruction is generally fairly opaque, it’s difficult to decipher exactly why MOOC instructors are predominantly male. They point out, however, that it surely can’t be because women don’t want to take advantage of this exciting opportunity and the potential resources that might flow from it. And it does not appear that women are under-represented because MOOCs are choosing only the oldest and most established professors, most of whom are male. The ages of the instructors range from fairly new PhDs through long-tenured professors. My view, as a reformed Open Education evangelist, is that there are three main reasons for the gender disparity described above. First, the MOOC model is an offshoot of the broader open education movement, which has roots in the open source software movement, which has a long and storied history of gender bias, sexism, and exclusionary practices. Although the OpenEd movement is working hard on the “gender problem,” it’s not easy to shake free of all that yucky history. Second, the MOOC model, with its reliance on lectures and content delivery, is misaligned to certain pedagogical approaches. If you embrace a feminist pedagogy, if you favor culturally relevant pedagogy, if you believe good teaching requires responsiveness and flexibility and an effort to come to mutual understanding in collaboration with your students, then you may consider the MOOC to be incompatible with your epistemological commitments. This is not to say, mind you, that no MOOC could ever be taught using one of the above approaches–I’m sure that some instructor, somewhere, has found a way to shape a MOOC to fit these and similar commitments. It’s only to say that developing a MOOC gets harder the farther you get from the “traditional” lecture-based approach to instruction. Which leads me to my third point: the MOOC model doesn’t really help female faculty all that much. Let’s say you’re a female-bodied university professor–which, by the way, means you overcame some odds: Although women make up nearly 60% of all college undergraduates, they’re far less likely than are their male peers to begin a doctoral program and far less likely to earn their Ph.D. Women are also less likely to secure faculty positions at top-tier universities like Stanford and Princeton and MIT and the University of Pennsylvania–which are among the most prominent proponents of the MOOC model. Ok, so you’re a female-bodied university professor at one of those universities. You know you’re going to have to fight harder than your male colleagues to earn tenure . Your students are probably going to give you lower evaluations than they give your male colleagues . And teaching a MOOC, while it may be an intriguing project, is probably not going to help you overcome these obstacles. So why would you bother? The MOOC model has been embraced as a potential equalizer, as a way to confront educational inequity on a global scale. I don’t disagree in theory with this–making more information available to more people has to be viewed as an important project. In practice, however, MOOCs are still very much part of the broken system they purport to fix. Tweet This Post 
3867	Yes	 We've all seen rain maps for a sliver of time. Screw that. I want to see the total amount of rainfall over a ten-year period. Bill Wheaton did just that in the video above, showing cumulative rainfall between 1960 and 1970. The cool part is that you see mountains appear, but they're not actually mapped. The hillshaded terrain (the growing hills and mountains) is based on the rainfall data, not on actual physical topography. In other words, hills and mountains are formed by the rainfall distribution itself and grow as the accumulated precipitation grows. High mountains and sharp edges occur where the distribution of precipitation varies substantially across short distances. Wide, broad plains and low hills are formed when the distribution of rainfall is relatively even across the landscape. See also Wheaton's video that shows four years of rain straight up. Is there more recent data? It could be an interesting complement to the drought maps we saw a few months ago. [Thanks, Bill] 
3868	Yes	 I recently published this article in a special issue of the Journal of Library Administration devoted to digital humanities and the library. You can find a non-paywalled copy of the article here . Many thanks to Micah Vandegrift for drafting an open-access addendum to our publishing agreement with Taylor and Francis. Micah has also posted an “alt-TOC” for this issue, with links to the other authors’ non-paywalled essays, along with a great synopsis of how he approached the negotiation with Taylor and Francis. 
3869	Yes	One thing that I have noticed on many Wikipedia pages is that you get references, and some external links, but not what I would call a useful bibliography. There are bibliography pages, but these are usually huge, comprehensive lists of works on broad topics. What I appreciate about Wikipedia is that it is a great place to start when you are delving into a new topic. The links between Wikipedia pages within the text can be very helpful (albeit at times a bit too much of a distraction when your curiosity takes you a great distance from where you started). I would like for at least some Wikipedia pages to serve also as a beginning bibliography for the topic. What constitutes a beginning bibliography is obviously not easy to define, but Wikipedia has never shied away from such difficulties. When I was in college we had a separate undergraduate library that had the basic books in each field. If you'd never thought about, say, anthropology, you could find the LC class number for that topic, go to the shelf, and you'd be looking at the books that most professors teaching an undergraduate course would consider "must reads" in the field. There was even a published list, called "Books for College Libraries" that listed the key books that college libraries of various sizes should have in their collections. This is now an online resource called "Resources for College Libraries" (behind a paywall) that has over 70,000 titles in 61 different subject areas. What this means is that doing something similar in Wikipedia is neither impossible nor radical. I got to do a small experiment in this area yesterday at a local "Wikipedia edit-a-thon." I had brought with me some books that I thought would yield interesting explorations - one of which is a marvelous book called " Woman in Science quot; published in 1913.  Although the author is listed as quot;H. J. Mozansquot; that turns out to be a pseudonym for John Augustine Zahm. Zahm does have a Wikipedia page , and it did list, within a paragraph, a number of books that he had written. Oddly enough, Woman in Science wasn't one of them. I added it, then decided that since he had written a handful of books that I would add a bibliography on his page. The Wikipedia bibliography format is, well, you know, like so many Wikipedia structures, something less than friendly. But I discovered something that I probably should have known. I went to the Open Library page for the book, and near the bottom found the list of export formats. Clicking on "Wikipedia Citation" I got this: which can be pasted directly into Wikipedia. If you are using it for an inline citation, you need to surround this code with lt;refgt;lt;/refgt;, which will then create a number reference and will add this to the references at the bottom of the page. Unfortunately, the Open Library code doesn't include a link to the full text, most likely because that isn't part of the Wikipedia format. To do that I added a link to the Internet Archive digitized version of the book after the citation. You can look on the Zahm page and see how that looks. (I'm still looking for a better way to format it so that the link to the full text stands out without looking ugly.) There is another way to add bibliographic data to Wikipedia which is to click on the menu at the top of the edit window and select a citation type, which then gives you a form to fill out. But if you can find the item in the Open Library, you can avoid all of that typing. Now that I have learned that it is easy to add bibliographic data to Wikipedia I#39;m interested in exploring ways that Wikipedia pages can be starting places for essential reading on topics. It naturally makes sense to point to any existing digital materials, but a next logical step would be to find a way to point to libraries for more recent (and in copyright) materials.  
3870	Yes	SimCity EDU Takes on STEM Education in the Classroom Some light-hearted approaches of educating through simulating have been interesting, like the Killer Flu game , for example.  But a new collaboration by Electronic Arts and GlassLab  is aiming to take management sim education to the next level, with SimCity EDU . Coming this March, SimCity EDU will be a special version of the beloved SimCity game designed to teach STEM Education in classrooms. Students playing the game will be able to create learning tools to share amongst their peers. Educators will be able to use SimCity EDU with virtual lesson plans and other games that will adhere to U.S. Common Core standards of teaching, which are standards to provide a consistent approach towards efective college and career preparations. Lucy Bradshaw, senior vice president and general manager of Maxis at EA, states that SimCity EDU will teach “problem solving skills through imaginative civic gameplay,”. As I’m sure many people have very fond memories of the older SimCities of days past and the SimCity 2000 image above for my generation, this new collaboration seems to be apart of EA’s strategy to bring SimCity back into the limelight, especially with the recent release of SimCity Social and SimCity 2013 also slated to come out this March. Nevertheless, SimCity EDU is a refreshing approach to STEM education and is a welcome change in perspective for new students who may not have tried the game before. Its easy to get lost in SimCity as a disaster simulator rather than a management simulator but I have confidence SimCity EDU will allow students to use Godzilla in such a way that will make them into a scientist (hopefully not a mad one). via Mashable --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post SimCity EDU Combines STEM Education and Management Simulations appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3871	Yes	The full job posting is on the Colorado State University Libraries’ site and copied below for ease.  Colorado State University Libraries Position Description Data Management Librarian (Assistant/Associate Professor – Rank TBD) Full-Time Faculty Position POSITION: The Colorado State University Libraries is seeking a collaborative, innovative, and service-oriented librarian to provide support for the teaching, research, and data management needs of the campus community. The Data Management Librarian is part of a team that leads the development, management, and promotion of campus and cooperative digital collections and repository services. This position offers an exciting opportunity to support a scholarly communications program that will provide support services relating to organizing, preserving, and sharing of research data. RESPONSIBILITIES: The successful candidate will work closely with staff in the Digital Library and ePublishing Services Division and other Libraries’ units to leverage the full range of library expertise and resources in building and managing the consortial digital repository, Digital Collections of Colorado (http://digitool.library.colostate.edu), and its content. This position: Contributes to development of policies and procedures; collaborates to develop and implement appropriate metadata strategies to enhance discovery, management, presentation, and preservation of digital collections; develops planning documents and monitors progress for projects; creates new digital collections within the repositories; and collaborates on development of web content, displays, and interfaces. Works with Libraries staff and members of other institutions on cooperative digital projects. Monitors developments related to digital repositories and services, including new data management approaches and technologies. Works with Libraries staff to support and promote repository services. Collaborates with the College Liaisons, other librarians, and campus partners to develop and support data services. Reporting to the Coordinator of the Digital Collection Services Department, the Data Management Librarian contributes to departmental planning, development, and evaluation of services. QUALIFICATIONS: Required: MLS or equivalent from an ALA accredited program, completed by June 30th, 2013; demonstrated knowledge of one or more digital asset or institutional repository systems (e.g., DigiTool, CONTENTdm, DSpace); demonstrated knowledge of digital technologies, applying digital standards, and employing principles of content description, controlled vocabularies, and appropriate metadata schema/markup standards (including but not limited to MARC21, Dublin Core, METS, MODS, and XML) preferably within an academic setting; ability to work independently and collaboratively within an exciting and rapidly evolving environment; ability to work well with a diverse employee and user community; strong analytical and decision-making skills; excellent interpersonal and communication skills; and the ability to meet tenure and promotion criteria. Preferred: Additional graduate degree in a subject discipline or knowledge of research methods in a subject discipline; demonstrated interest in growing expertise in digital initiatives and technologies as they apply to open access digital repositories, scholarly communication, and data services; knowledge of digital preservation standards and best practices; knowledge of research data lifecycle concepts and issues; experience creating, reviewing, editing, and bulk loading of metadata or content for digital collections; familiarity with data interchange standards (e.g., OAI-PMH); knowledge of the semantic web and linked data; experience with integrated library systems; experience with providing research data services; understanding of best practices in data management; experience with data analytics; experience with consortial collaborations. ENVIRONMENT: The Digital Collections of Colorado repository provides management, dissemination, and preservation services for research, scholarship, and creative works of faculty, students, and academic staff from several Colorado institutions of higher education. This rich resource of over 45,000 digital objects also hosts locally digitized collections of selected archival holdings to support teaching and research. RANK AND SALARY: Faculty status and responsibilities. Twelve-month tenure-track appointment with contract reviewed annually until tenure is granted. Rank is dependent upon qualifications. Insurance benefits are available for appointments of half-time or greater, and faculty and administrative professionals may select from several options for medical, dental, life, and personal disability insurance, as well as retirement plans. Full-time faculty and administrative professionals earn 24 days of vacation and 15 days of sick leave annually. Optional deferred compensation. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience and qualifications. UNIVERSITY DESCRIPTION: Colorado State University was established as the land-grant institution of the State of Colorado in 1870. Student enrollment is approximately 25,000, and the University employs 1,400 academic faculty, 1,900 administrative professionals, and 2,000 classified staff. Colorado State University is located in Fort Collins, a dynamic community with a population of approximately 135,000, and situated 65 miles north of Denver, at the western edge of the Great Plains and at the base of the Rocky Mountains. Averaging 300 days of sunshine per year, with low humidity and moderate winters, Fort Collins is ideally located for a variety of recreational, cultural, and family activities. The University Libraries is a member of the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), the Greater Western Library Alliance (GWLA), and the Colorado Alliance of Research Libraries and has a comprehensive online presence at http://lib.colostate.edu . TO APPLY: To apply, send a letter of application addressing your qualifications for the position, plus a current resume, to Ms. Sande Innes, HRS Liaison, University Libraries 1019, Colorado State University Libraries, Fort Collins, CO 80523-1019, or by e-mail to sande.innes@colostate.edu. Candidates selected for an interview will be asked to provide the names and contact information for three professional references. Applications and nominations will be accepted until the position is filled; however, to ensure full consideration, application materials must be received by March 18, 2013 at 5:00pm. The search may be extended if a suitable candidate is not identified. Colorado State University is committed to providing a safe and productive learning and living community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background investigations for all final candidates being considered for employment. Background checks may include, but are not limited to, criminal history, national sex offender search and motor vehicle history. Colorado State University does not discriminate on the basis of race, age, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, gender, disability, veteran status, genetic information, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression. Colorado State University is an equal opportunity/equal access/affirmative action employer fully committed to achieving a diverse workforce and complies with all Federal and Colorado State laws, regulations, and executive orders regarding non-discrimination and affirmative action. The Office of Equal Opportunity is located in 101 Student Services. 
3872	Yes	 The CFP below is from the e-Science Community Blog for New England Librarians. The   Research Data Management Implementation (RDMI) workshop  will be held March 12-14th at the Westin Arlington Gateway. The conference is co-sponsored by the NSF and the Coalition for Academic Scientific Computation and is intended to bring together research computing communities and leading experts in data management to discuss actual implementation architectures as they relate to discipline-specific workflows and deployments. Building on the results of the NSF funded Research Data Lifecycle Management Workshop held at Princeton University in 2011, RDMI will shift focus to implementations of solutions and encourage open discussion of available strategies for data management in specific fields based on actual case studies. Conference organizers are inviting submission of Experience and Position papers that describe implementations of discipline-based data infrastructure. See  invitation and paper guidelines . See  conference agenda  for topics and speakers. Additionally, Clifford Lynch, director of  CNI, recently posted more details about the RDMI conference. One should note that onsite participation in the conference will be limited to 75 leaders, but videoconferencing will also used to reach a broader audience.   See posting. 
3873	Yes	I’ll blog pretty much anything that has to do with Inform 7. Text-based games, or interactive fiction, have continued to evolve since the days of Zork. Many works can be powerful for play in the classroom: Emily Short’s “interactive epistolary” First Draft of the Revolution, Andrew Plotkin’s physics-grounded Dual Transform, Peter Nepstad’s historically grounded 1893: A World’s Fair Mystery, and Aaron’s Reed’s interactive novel Blue Lacuna are only a few examples among a vast archive of varied works.One of the great appeals of text-based games is the relative ease with which you can make them. via Make Games in the Classroom with Inform 7 – ProfHacker – The Chronicle of Higher Education . 
3874	Yes	 Karl Grossner , my colleague here at Stanford who I work with supporting digital humanities research, got a chance to read my previous post on geospatial information visualization . Karl’s got a PhD in geography and a bit of experience with geospatial information visualization as well as spatial thinking , so I was looking forward to his response to my essay. That is, until I heard his response. “I liked it, but I was surprised by the fact that I wrote the first two paragraphs,” is not what one wants to hear about their writing. That initial piece of writing, I was reminded, was a draft abstract for a paper Karl and I had considered writing for DH13, but abandoned in favor of different proposals. The topic came from a presentation that I’d put together and presented at an earlier conference for which I had produced the maps and interactive application put forth in the post. As anyone who found out on a chilly Monday morning that he was a plagiarist would do, I thought this would make an interesting topic to explore on the very same blog where I had done the deed. While Karl laughed it off, I naturally found it very disconcerting. The chain of custody on the writing is, like many digital documents, quite messy: it went from a Word document to an OpenOffice document to a Google Drive document to a WordPress blog post, and in between transformed from an abstract for a paper that was abandoned into a more informal short essay about the same subject matter. By the time it was a months-old chunk of text on Google Drive, I’d forgotten that I hadn’t written it, and proceeded to explore the topic as if I had. Probably more strange to an academic audience is that while I find it disconcerting, I’m not very surprised by it. That sounds more flippant than it really is, but I just cannot imagine how the constant collaboration and repurposing of code, text, designs, and data won’t create more situations like this. But there’s something about text, and not just in humanities scholarship, where reuse and mashing up does not occur quite so easily as with the rest. Plagiarism comes from the Latin plagiarius– literally a kidnapper–and carries with it a heavier condemnation than the use of some technique to represent data that was pioneered by one researcher without reference to that researcher, or the use of some small function in a larger piece of code, or the use of data without citing the provider of the data. It’s my feeling that as we struggle with properly assigning credit for work done on large, collaborative projects, that the overwhelming ease and amount of collaboration will make it harder and harder to parse just where and how an idea came into existence and who and what described it. The only thing I feel I can do is that in those situations where I forget to do so is to immediately point it out when it’s happened, no matter how embarrassing it may be.     
3875	Yes	"Mémoire Involontaire" by Braxton Soderman : This mutable poem explores how memory can be affected by the passage of time by using a fascinating tool, the RiTa.WordNet library. This collection of words is associated through a variety of semantic and conceptual relations so when Soderman uses it as a data set for word substitution (as he did in “ Cloud #1 ”) it creates a cognitive language trail. The challenge this text poses is that it creates a different substitution every second, effectively creating a textual moving target as it follows different cognitive trails. The ringing bells in the audio track reminds us of the passage of time and as some texts attempt to revert their signifying trail we sense the irony in attempting to reverse time. Its changing background color represents the shifting contexts in which texts are received and by using color contrast draws attention to certain details and swallows others, as seen below. Consider how far this memory has come, shaped by language even when a faithful reconstruction is desired. As you read this poem, think about how we attempt to represent the past through narrative and how our word choices are integral to that process. How do our stories and our recollection of them change over time? 
3876	Yes	The marketing gods of Manhattan are rounding the bend into Valentine’s Day-themed imagery, but I’m still thinking about the “holiday season 2012” fervor.  Specifically, I’ve been caught up in the department store holiday windows. Minnie Mouse dancing with Sarah Jessica Parker.  Winged women in 1920’s-style flapper dresses floating in front of a kaleidoscopic glass and gold backdrop.  Santa leaning over a giant vintage globe in a musty study.  Carousel horses suspended from an ethereal blue mist.  In approaching the CUNY Graduate Center from most directions, these images were unavoidable.  What does it all mean? Bergdorf Goodman The department store holiday window display tradition in Manhattan always seems anachronistic to me.  It seems like a throwback to less tech-savvy entertainments, such as nineteenth century panoramas, or the diorama book reports I made in third grade. They are also, of course, a symbol of the complicity between corporate commercial interest and the production of supposed mainstream national culture.  And I will admit, I kind of love them. But what do the holiday windows communicate?  What do they say about attempts at constructing a cohesive narrative of the “holiday season” in the United States?  About the relationship between this amorphous holiday season and American trends in fashion and consumption?  About the carefully constructed neutrality of the concept of a “holiday season” itself? The generic greeting of “happy holidays,” so ubiquitous in December in New York City, always makes me particularly conscious of the complexity of negotiating aspects of national culture in a country that has, perhaps, never conformed to the neat nation-state model.  This winter I noted how many times, in my Queens neighborhood known for its ethnic and national diversity, I had interactions with strangers in which we both wished each other a “merry Christmas,” after which I paused and considered how unlikely it was that either of us was planning on celebrating Christmas on purpose. The holiday windows present an interesting text for considering the conscious choices that corporations make in communicating a particular vision of the holiday season.  The trend in the window themes this year seems to have favored topics without explicit Christmas imagery.  For example, local news sites identified a roaring twenties theme represented by Bergdorf Goodman’s jazz-age windows and Henri Bedel’s Great Gatsby-era windows.  Barney’s Disney-themed windows stuck to a generic treatment of the holidays with their “electric holiday” series.  Bloomingdale’s Cirque du Soleil theme invoked whimsical, otherworldly landscapes, meant, presumably, to speak to the transporting nature of holiday revelry.  I’m not sure what makes these themes “holiday” specific, aside from the vaguely religious imagery of winged angel women in low-waisted white fringe dresses.  More than anything, the common denominators deemed “safe” for these window themes seem to be material decadence and high-end nightlife. Bloomingdale’s The Macy’s and Lord and Taylor windows stood out through their use of specific Christmas imagery.  The Macy’s windows, based on the story associated with the now legendary 1897 newspaper editorial “Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus,” convey a family-friendly ethos with old fashioned charm, reminding us that childhood belief in the supernatural keeps alive a valuable spirit of possibility.  But is this kind of belief deemed universally valuable, or is it the specific trappings of Christmas imagery that are shown to be uniquely wholesome? Macy’s It was the Lord and Taylor windows that most interested me.  The series, titled “Wish for Tradition,” depicted Santa in an old study, leaning over a globe.  The tones are muted, as though we’re viewing Santa lost in time.  The globe conveys a sense of world unity in diversity, just as “tradition” implies continuity between the contemporary world and the past.  But this global unity is limited; it is, apparently, only populations that Santa plans on visiting who are included.  The dioramas include a snowy central park excursion, a scene in an outdoor German gift market, a swanky party in an unidentified location (but mostly attended by white people), and a lantern-strewn bridge in Japan with people wearing both traditional and modern clothing.  Tradition, the title implies, is something we should wish for, something we are perhaps at risk of losing, something that might be given to us wrapped in shiny paper if we hope for it fervently enough. Lord and Taylor But this glorified representation of tradition only applies to those parts of the world where December is a blanket of snow, or where holiday festivities are marked by buying things, or by a tuxedo-clad waiter carrying bottles of champagne. 
3877	Yes	 The digital world provides historians with an array of tools and ways to make our time in the archive and our research process more fulfilling , thorough, and generally productive. But the changes we make need to happen from the bottom up–from conception to execution. For example, Trevor Owens, assessing the Ithaka report on historian’s research practices released late last year questions whether library finding aids are as useful as they can be in a brave, new world of Google search: If the goal of the finding aid is to help researchers find things and the way they do that is to search Google (which is really good at looking for particular things in HTML pages) then why is the HTML page a byproduct of the EAD XML finding aid and not the primary thing that the archivist authors? In other words, Owens is asking librarians, libraries, and archives to think about how technology is changing the entire research process–not just how technology can make what we have done in the past easier. The truth is, what we have done in the past may not work as well as it did. Surprise of all surprises. If I apply the same sort of thinking to the process I outlined in my last post , I’m doing something fundamentally different from others who experience their research in a so-called analog way–by sitting in an archive with boxes of documents and moving methodically through each one.  For those historians, data collection and data review happen simultaneously . The process I described is only part of the process because it’s primarily a data collection process. It works because it uses the time I have in the archive–which is always limited–as efficiently as possible. But it also means I’ve pushed the work of translating, taking notes, or organizing those notes–the data review –to a different time of day or point in my research trip. This, to me, is not a bad thing. I’d much rather have the documents I need wherever I go and process them in the early morning (or late night) hours of the day, when the archive is closed.  Rather than feel like there is something in the archive I missed because I didn’t have enough time to cover all of the boxes, and then have to go through the process of applying for funding, arranging time off, making travel arrangements, etc., etc., etc. In fact, I’d wager that for anyone researching the Atlantic African diaspora, technology is a necessity, not a luxury or a privilege. Mobile, digital, accessible personal archives are crucial for those of us invested in the comparative study of people of African descent. Black people moved and were moved.  My current project requires me to visit archives on three continents and I have documents I’ve photographed in France, Senegal, and in the United States. And I’m doing this work at a time when spending years and years in the archive is a near impossibility–tenure requirements forbid it, research funding prevents it. There is also a painful effort to maintain archives that especially impacts those studying histories outside of the so-called West.  From Haiti to Timbuktu , cataclysmic events are destroying the documents we need even as I type this post. Beyond conflict zones and environmental disasters, the daily labor of protecting documents can still overwhelm resources .  I’ve done research as the documents themselves were crumbling in my hands. These problems aren’t unique to the global South. In Aix-en-Provence, I’ve opened many a notarial register to find worms have eaten their way through the material to the point of illegibility.  And there’s been a push in Louisiana to save the New Orleans colonial archives from destruction. Photocopying these materials is often impossible. Then there’s the time period I work in–long before the printed word became the norm.  Even if the documents I am reviewing have sustained no obvious damage, they’re still written in the looping eighteenth-century scrawl.  While the ink is alarming resilient after centuries, the handwriting doesn’t get more legible over time. But you know what does make that cipheric scribble just a little bit easier to read? Manipulating contrast through an image reader.  “Getting lucky” with Picasa. This new research process is something that needs to continue to be discussed and theorized inside and outside of the academy .  And as far as within the academy, there may be something to this dual-process that department heads and institutions may need to keep in mind as new faculty navigate the terrain of research, teaching, and service. Doing “Atlantic world” research is quite sexy right now and technology makes it efficient. But in what way is our labor–from top to bottom, conception to execution–fundamentally different from colleagues doing work within other frameworks? Image Credit: “CO 1069-96-7″ [Sierra Leone] courtesy of National Archives UK. The descriptions read: Cassava heaps; Gathering trash; Digging for cassava; Planting cassava; Fully grown cassava in house-yard. Tagged: afro atlantic , archives , methodology , research , technology 
3878	Yes	You have an array: $object0 = ( object ) array ( 'priority' =gt; 5 ) ; $object1 = ( object ) array ( 'priority' =gt; 10 ) ; $object2 = ( object ) array ( 'priority' =gt; 5 ) ; $my_array = array ( 0 =gt; $object0 , 1 =gt; $object1 , 2 =gt; $object2 , ) ; Now let’s say you want to sort that array. You would probably call uasort($my_array $callback) with a callback to sort by the objects’ priority property. And you might end up with: $my_array == array ( 0 =gt; $object0 , 2 =gt; $object2 , 1 =gt; $object1 , ) ; Or, you might end up with: $my_array == array ( 2 =gt; $object2 , 0 =gt; $object0 , 1 =gt; $object1 , ) ; Keep calling uasort($my_array, $callback) , and you might even switch back and forth between the two. What if you want to maintain the order of $object0 and $object2 , no matter how many times you sort the array? There’s no native PHP function to accomplish this, but it’s fairly easily done using the Schwartzian Transform . The Schwartzian Transform is a three step process: decorate, sort, undecorate. We decorate each item in the array by wrapping it in a more-easily sorted container. We then sort those containers, then remove our wrapper, leaving us with our original elements, only sorted. For our array above, we would transform each item in the array into an array with three items: the priority, the index, and the the object. array_walk ( $my_array , create_function ( #39;amp;$v, $k#39; , #39;$v = array( $v-gt;priority, $k, $v );#39; ) ) ; PHP’s built-in asort() sorts this first by priority (array index 0), and if priorities are the same, then items by index (array index 1). Since every index is distinct, the sorting will never fall back to the third item in the array. asort ( $my_array ) ; Finally, put all the items in the array back where we found them: array_walk ( $my_array , create_function ( #39;amp;$v, $k#39; , '$v = $v[2];' ) ) ; The Schwartzian Transform has the benefits of being both stable (multiple calls will produce the same result) and efficient (you only have to calculate the “priority” of each item once; helpful if it’s a more expensive operation). 
3879	Yes	 The Catholic Pamphlets collection at the University of Notre Dame contains a wide variety of pamphlets, booklets, and other documents pertaining to Catholicism or the Church in some way. The collection is located at the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections at Hesburgh Library, and is currently undergoing digitization. These publications were intended to educate a particular audience regarding issues relevant to the Church. While the University of Notre Dame’s collection does not include any entries before the nineteenth century, there is evidence of similar pamphlets being published at least since the time of the Reformation in Europe. With the invention of the printing press, pamphlets became a convenient means to disseminate ideas to a wide audience. Such publications were produced by both Protestant and Catholic sources in an attempt to influence readers with respect to religious and social issues (Edwards). Example Pamphlet In the Catholic Pamphlets collection, the publication dates range from 1823 to 2008, but most of them were published in the twentieth century, particularly between 1930 and 1959. Of the 5126 entries in the catalog, 152 were published before 1900, 3719 were published between 1900 and 1999 inclusive, 26 were published in 2000 or later, and 1229 have an unknown or approximate year listed. There are 1295 unique publisher entries, of which the one with the most pamphlets in the collection is the Paulist Press, with 355 entries, followed by the National Council of Catholic Men (220 entries), Queen’s Work (209 entries), s.n. [none listed] (193 entries), the Catholic Truth Society (156 entries), and Our Sunday Visitor (154 entries). Most common words in titles Most common words in subject headings Most common words in subject headings (minus “Catholic” and “Church”) The pamphlets are mostly in English, but there are entries from a variety of languages in the collection, including Latin, French, Polish, Spanish, Chinese, and more. Despite the name “Catholic Pamphlets,” not all of the documents are “pamphlets” in a strict sense: the documents in the collection range in size from single pages to small books of one hundred to two hundred pages. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, for example, uses the following definition for a pamphlet in its publication, “International Standardization of Statistics Relating to Book Production and Periodicals:” “A pamphlet is a non-periodical printed publication of at least 5 but not more than 48 pages, exclusive of the cover pages, published in a particular country and made available to the public.” This definition should be helpful as a point of comparison. Using this definition, there are entries that might not be considered “pamphlets,” such as “Courtship and Marriage,” which is 136 pages, and “Suggested Constitution of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine for Parish Units Affiliated with the Diocesan Confraternity,” which is only 4 pages. Examples of entries not meeting the UNESCO definition of a “pamphlet” There is a wide range of topics discussed in these pamphlets, which can be dependent on the time in which they were published. For example, during the early to mid-twentieth century there were a fair number of pamphlets published concerning communism and the views of the Church and individual Catholics concerning it, such as “Communism: Threat to Freedom” [1962], “Facts about Communism” [1937], and “Just What is Communism?” [1935]. Other pamphlets are instructional in nature, teaching about the sacraments or the mass. These materials include pamphlets targeted toward Catholics such as “Preparing Your Child for the Sacraments” [1965] as well as pamphlets targeted toward non-Catholics who may be unfamiliar with various aspects of Catholicism, such as “Catholic’s Ready Reply; Thirty-nine Answers to the Thirty-nine Most Frequent Questions Asked by Non-Catholics” [1954]. Some pamphlets concern social and moral issues, such as poverty, alcoholism, and war, while others are simply prayer books, catechisms, instructions for mass, and novenas. Finally, there are some entries which are only tangentially related to Catholicism such as a few collections of comics that were published in Catholic magazines, including “Speck, the Altar Boy” [1958], “Our Little Nuns: A Book of Cartoons Created Exclusively for Extension Magazine” [1954], and “Priests are like People: A Book of Cartoons Created Exclusively for Extension Magazine” [1954]. The pamphlets can be useful in answering a number of questions researchers may have about the Church or Catholicism. For example, one could use the pamphlets to study how has the Church evolved regarding ecumenism and relations toward non-Catholics. A cursory search of the collection reveals titles such as “Is there Salvation Outside the Church?”, “An Interdiocesan Program for Ecumenism: That We May Be One” [1971], “Documents on Anglican/Roman Catholic relations” [1972], and “On Dialogue with Non-Believers: August 28, 1968.” [1968]. Another possible research question that could be answered with the Catholic Pamphlets collection is how views on papal and church authority have changed over the years. A search of titles in the collection for “authority” and “infallibility returns the following entries, among others: “Is the Pope Always Right? Of Papal Infallibility” [1947] “Papal Infallibility” [1925] “Is Papal Infallibility Reasonable? A Divine Safeguard Against Error” “An Agreed Statement on Authority in the Church: Venice, 1976″ “The Principle of Authority: Churches and Pastors, the Church, its Authority” “The Obedience of Authority” [1922] “Freedom vs. authority” [1966] “Reflections on conscience and authority” [1964] Of particular interest to researchers is the concordance feature, currently located at http://concordance.library.nd.edu/app/ . This can be used to find the frequency of words in a given document, and can be useful in getting an overview of the themes and topics of that publication. For example, the concordance feature can be used with “Is the Pope Always Right? Of Papal Infallibility” to find the 25 most frequently used words, which are as follows: church (62); bill (49); €” (36); charlie (32); father (32); catholic (24); can (22); priest (22); faith (21); said (21); infallibility (19); one (18); even (14); papal (14); come (13); say (13); make (12); know (11); god (11); will (10); people (10); think (10); life (10); see (10); work (10); The concordance feature is fairly flexible in how it can be used. Along with searching for the most frequent words in a document, the concordance can find the most common phrases of x number of words, or the most common words beginning with a certain letter of the alphabet. The concordance feature is not without a few shortcomings, however. As the example above shows, the concordance may include common words like “can” in its search, along with artifacts from the optical character recognition (OCR) process such as the euro currency symbol shown in the third result. Despite these shortcomings, the concordance should still be a rather useful and interesting feature to researchers of the pamphlet collection. Finally, when using the Catholic Pamphlets collection for research, some things should be kept in mind. In particular, the views presented in a given pamphlet could be those of the Church itself, or it could be just those of a particular individual or group. Care should be taken to avoid giving undue weight to the views of one particular person or organization as being representative. For example, there are several pamphlets by the controversial 1930s radio host, Father Charles Coughlin, and it might not be reasonable to conclude that his views on, for example, labor and economic issues are representative of the Church as a whole, even in the 1930s. Additionally, there could be some greater context that needs to be kept in mind, such as the events of a particular time period. For example, something significant such as World War II or the Second Vatican Council may have influenced the sorts of pamphlets published in their respective time periods. Finally, an existing familiarity with Church history and issues related to Catholicism will help greatly in making use of the Catholic Pamphlets collection for research. The examples given here are based on title keywords that this author knows are associated with a given topic. A title may not always be indicative of a pamphlet’s subject material. There may be other pamphlets about, for example, church authority that do not use the terms “infallibility,” “authority,” or certain other words. A researcher with a better knowledge of church history may have a better ability to search for relevant documents. In spite of the limitations mentioned here, the Catholic Pamphlets collection should still be rather useful for those studying Church history or other aspects of Catholicism. Bibliography Edwards, M. U. (1994). Printing, Propaganda and Martin Luther. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. Holborn, L. W. (1942). Printing and the Growth of a Protestant Movement in Germany from 1517 to 1524. Church History, 11 (2), 123-137. 
3880	Yes	 Continuing the puppet-animation based (loosely) on the Sumerian Epic of Gilgamesh. The Goddess Aruru has sent Enkidu to challenge Gilgamesh. But when Gilgamesh and Enkidu finally meet, they become friends, and start to boast that even the immortals could not stand against them. When she hears this, Aruru decides to take direct action. Episode 4 of 10. Tags:  Gilgamesh puppet-animation humour comedy experimental video open source Mythology 
3881	Yes	Answer here . 
3882	Yes	The Loon has thought for some time that an inevitable battle in the struggle against paywalled research knowledge would occur when academe revolted in collective outrage against paywallers imposing severe punishment for an everyday academic practice. If publishers had won the Georgia State case, if they win on appeal and destroy e-reserves, if the Authors Guild had beaten Hathi Trust in court, if NPG hadn’t backed down in some fashion from its California price hike, those might have done it. Do Swartz’s suicide and the subsequent eruption of #pdftribute mean this is the proverbial it ? Not quite… but it’s closer than anything has yet been, and if the Loon worked for paywallers, she’d worry. Two truths dampen the backlash: first, Swartz was not himself an academic, so most academics do not feel directly attacked; and second, few academics can imagine breaking into a server closet with a laptop. Moreover, the mourning and anger for Swartz, heartfelt and activist though it is, appears not to have made the leap offline, and most of academe is still stubbornly, resolutely offline. Well, and one other thing: even online academe still doesn’t understand open access . Just look at the several open-access–related misstatements in that article, written by a young (so ignorance cannot be fobbed off on age) anthropologist (nor humanism). What #pdftribute does bring to the table is a new urgency for those taking part in it, an urgency that changes “open access? … meh” to “there is good and cogent reason to make our work open.” That belief is new to most #pdftributers, as it was to many Cost of Knowledge signatories , and while the initial impulse will unquestionably fade, the belief likely won’t. In other words, paywallers are having their apathetic silent majority chipped away at, again. That’s not good for them. The Loon grudges the price. Exceedingly grudges it. Swartz was her kind of people, never mind that no one should die the way he did. She does believe that Swartz would approve #pdftribute and court longer-range impact for it, however, and she will do what is in her to bring that about. 
3883	Yes	“So,” a friend of the Loon’s asked her a short while ago, “how does it feel to be unemployable?” No, no, now, stop, this truly was a friend, and the query was not meant to hurt. It’s a legitimate question: when one has joined the exodus or been shown the door for any of a number of reasons, what next? Well, if one is like the Loon, grief, anger, and recrimination ensue. They take some time to climb out of—the Loon is still working on it, though she’s nearer the top than the bottom of the chasm, finally—but unless permitted to run riot, these natural and ordinary states of mind don’t generally inhibit important parts of moving on, such as sorting out how to put fish on the table. The Loon should perhaps be more specific about what she means when she says she is unemployable. She is far too far along in her career, and too well-established in certain among her specialties, for librarianship to permit her to “start over,” even in a different specialty or another type of library. Lateral moves are near-impossible because of the Loon’s abrasive, vocal iconoclasm; she is disliked or feared or both at many employers she might otherwise move to, and her reputation “in the cloud” is not good. (Never underestimate how much hearsay and gossip fuels the average search committee.) Even were that not so, the Loon is decidedly wary of the jobs she left, and doesn’t really care to take another stab at them. Neither scholarly communication nor research-data management gets a fair shake in most libraries; why knowingly endure (much less court) being set up to fail yet again? Her career boasts sufficient longevity to try for the lower echelons of library management, were it not that her specialties were organizationally distinguished by their lone-wolfness, such that she has very little experience to suggest to a search committee by way of management qualifications. (Not nothing exactly, nor does she think herself wholly unsuited for the role; but what experience she does have does not paint her as the Organization Loon most libraries seek in their line supervisors and middle managers.) With down, sideways, and up equally out of reach, the remaining option is “out.” The Loon perforce chose that option. The difficulty she finds in discussing it is that “out” leads to a labyrinth of forking paths, difficult to generalize from. The Loon tested several possible “out”s, rejecting some and being rejected by others, before settling where she is, and she may well not be done with change—that depends on how the results of her latest negotiated workplace alteration play out, and she won’t know that for a year or more yet. Chaotic and uncertain though it’s been, the Loon is generally happy with how the uncertain period has turned out. She kept fish on the table (in fact, she scored herself a decent raise), which means that she now knows from the tip of her bill to the last feather in her tail that she can keep fish on the table, in spite of everything. This is useful and comforting knowledge. It is, in a way, safer to know oneself able to earn one’s fish from bits and bobs than to feel bound to acquiesce to a stunningly bad job merely because it is stable. That said, the Loon is a bird of habit and routine, wandering migration not her preferred life. She has therefore found a new pond to settle in, the library school where she teaches. The Loon is thoroughly delighted with the autonomy, creature comforts, mutual trust, mutual aid and protection, and quality of leadership provided by her new pond. Moreover, the identical qualities that landed the Loon in vast amounts of trouble in librarianship turn out to be valuable assets to an instructor. Outspokenness, opinionated irreverence, hamminess—these are no more than what it takes to face classrooms week in and week out. The Loon’s students can handle abrasive iconoclasm aimed at librarianship; it doesn’t hit them where they live yet, and they’re still open-minded enough to find iconoclasm profitably eye-opening. Perhaps most important, the Loon’s teaching work feels immediately, obviously useful and productive in a way her library work sadly almost never did. That is not to say the Loon enjoys perfect contentment, though the reasons she doesn’t are thoroughly idiosyncratic and likely none too wise. Her current employment does not offer quite the same sense of directly making history, of idealistically refashioning the world, as her old; missing that larger sense of purpose sometimes makes the Loon fretful. Her work is also removed from certain kinds of praxis and praxis-based learning that she was fond of—not unlike the shift from computer programmer to project manager that many programmers deplore—though she has plans in the works that may fill that hole somewhat. The Loon also doesn’t enjoy knowing that she can’t go back to librarianship even if she wants to. She didn’t go to library school to become a library-school instructor! She loves her own peculiar brand of librarianship, as cruel to her as it was, and she never thought she’d be shut away from it for good and all. That hurts. On bad days it’s a severe self-confidence sapper. As the Loon rebuilds her professional life, though, the hurt lessens as the attractions of the new situation grow, and as she learns different, often better means of exerting her will and talents to work toward desired change in the world. As for her shattered professional reputation, the Loon has given up on mending the pieces, and certainly on lamenting them, believing (with, of late, some supporting evidence) that she’ll do better building anew. The Loon is a great believer in serendipity, too. As she remakes herself, and turns that remade self loose to fly and swim and waddle about, opportunities will likely turn up. Who knows? Perhaps she isn’t lost to librarianship forever. Stranger things have happened, including to loons. How does unemployability feel, then? Sometimes raw and painful. Sometimes wistful, blurred with regrets. Mostly, though, it feels vigorous and constructive and worthwhile. That’s more than the Loon expected, and quite possibly more than she deserves, and she’s nothing if not grateful for that. 
3884	Yes	The Loon saw John Wilbanks express some uncharacteristic frustration earlier today on Twitter. She understands it. Oh, does she! A goodly part of the reason the Loon is unemployable is that she was repeatedly hired to run her head into the wall between the world and open access until the wall broke. The wall didn’t break; the Loon did. Some small still-reptilian segment of the Loon’s avian brain absolutely rages when she sees parvenus grabbing spotlights, swallowing up the open-access discourse, sailing gaily into clear waters the Loon spent long dark painful years trying to clear the weeds and algae from. How dare they . They didn’t work and fight and swallow endless gallons of insult and scorn and break their much-desired careers over open access, oh no. How dare they swan about on it now ? Most of them are likely fair-weather friends at best; they’ll swan onto the next thing shortly, leaving those of us who genuinely believe behind to pick up the real work again—the work they won’t have done any of, of course. (It’s worse when the parvenus show their undergarments in public. So many of them don’t understand what they’re prating on about!) Even when the parvenus lionize their elders-in-struggle, it can hurt. The Loon has been called “inspiring,” “groundbreaking,” her work an “instant classic.” Starry-eyed youngsters (even not-so-youngsters) have told her they want to be like her, not in the least understanding the prices the Loon has paid to be who she is—worse, not offering to support her in her continuing struggles. None of this adulation makes the Loon happy any more. It irritates her, frankly. The price was too damned high, the tangible personal rewards damned near nonexistent. Yes, the Loon understands. Here’s the thing, though. The thing is, this sort of interaction is what happens when we’re finally winning: winning mindshare , winning progress, winning allies. If we care to continue to win, we don’t alienate the parvenus ; we welcome them and do what we can to turn them into substantive contributors to—yes, even owners of—the movement. Eyes on the prize. This is what happens when we’re winning. To keep winning, we must suppress our annoyance—our justified, legitimate annoyance—and smile. This is unquestionably both unfair and difficult, but it remains much the best of the available options. Parvenus: forgive your elders our occasional lashing-out, please. It’s not that we grudge your presence; we don’t, no matter how much we growl. It’s that we have fought and been hurt. Acknowledge that, when you can, and try to remember to help us as you lend your new-broom enthusiasm to the movement. 
3885	Yes	Oh, yes. When the Loon asked for ignorant statements about open access to be challenged in 2013, this is exactly what she meant . She is particularly enamored of this bon mot : “Just because some people want stuff for free doesn’t mean that all people who want to free stuff are bad.” Also, this segment: A lot of the time when people like Rob Weir say this they believe that they are the hard-nosed realists who are speaking truth to a bunch of naive activists. In fact, the opposite is true — it is inevitably those people who have thought least about scholarly publishing and know little about open access who make this claim. Yes, indeed. Now, the Loon confesses she isn’t over-fond of the blatant ageism later in the post. Nonetheless, she enjoyed the post and agrees that the editorial it is challenging was wretchedly, shamefully ignorant. 
3886	Yes	Though Library Day in the Life has closed as a semi-organized event, the Loon isn’t quite ready to bid it farewell forever. Therefore we shall today have The Loon, Her Work Day, 24 January 2013. 5:15 am: The Loon awakens because a cat has sulkily decided it’s too cold in the nest, ergo crawling under the covers is appropriate. Accommodate cat; return to something vaguely like sleep. 6:20 am: Awaken again; arise. The cat’s irritation is the cat’s problem. Pull on additional plumage against the (yes, quite) cold nest. Go to the nest’s top story to turn on laptop and anti-seasonal-depression light. (The Loon lives in the Frozen North. The light helps.) 6:20-7:20 am: Check the Loon’s favorite webcomics (no xkcd today). Skim the Chronicle of Higher Education and Inside Higher Ed. Skim professional newsreader (yes, the Loon has a personal one as well, with a separate list of feeds); nothing needing bookmarking or saving for a closer read today. Catch up on a couple of casual browser games in the meanwhile. 7:20 am: Turn off light and laptop; go back downstairs to shift plumage and collect impedimenta for work. 7:40 am: Swim out of the nest toward work. 8:00 am: Arrive in office; divest extra plumage and impedimenta. Fetch physical mail; greet folk in main office. 8:05 am: Video upload left to run overnight did not complete. Growl. Restart it, in smaller chunks this time. Check signups for an event the Loon is responsible for. Volley some email and other social-media conversations. Start music playing (on the Loon’s iPod, so as not to serenade the entire floor of the building). 8:20 am: Check the class boards for discussion. Answer what needs answering. Deal with the usual raft of early-semester course-management-system glitches. Mull previous post over in rear of small avian brain. 9:00 am: Dash off previous post , pausing twice to direct people who are lost in the Loon’s building (it happens, especially at this time of the semester). 9:20 am: Read mailing lists and recheck feeds while taking care of various administrative and teaching chores. 10:15 am: Settle in to serious work on a continuing-education course. Finish a week’s “lecture” (actually written, not spoken; the topic at hand rewards precision), start on a quizlet. 10:45 am: Get involved in a Twitter conversation regarding previous post . 10:55 am: Wrench attention back to course. Finish quizlet. Revise “lecture.” Revise it again. Revise it more . 12:30 pm: Notice distinct lack of lunch. Rectify same, eating at desk because the Loon is both a busy and a messy creature. Start in on next lesson. 3:05 pm: Another half-week’s lesson, including accompanying quizlet, done. (This one was image-heavy, and the Loon takes a long time to make images.) Debate whether to start on the next chunk, despite brain-fog. Decide to take a break, dealing with an advising question in email and checking the (oh, dear, rather full) feedreader instead of charging into the next lesson. 3:20 pm: Happen across this blog post during feedreader peregrinations. Decide to blog it. Blog it. 3:35 pm: Finish email and feedreader. Decide to take a stab at starting the next half-lesson. Sketch out its outline in headings and subheadings. Write text, admitting ruefully that much of it may need rewriting tomorrow with a clearer head. 3:45 pm: Realize the video uploads have been forgotten. Sigh, check them. They worked this time! Start more video uploading. Back to lesson-writing. 3:59 pm: Realize there is a major thinko in the previous half-lesson that carries into the syllabus. Sigh heavily . Decide to deal with it later. Make a note in to-do list about it. 4:06 pm: Check email one last time for fires to put out. Finding none, post blog post, shut down computer and iPod in orderly fashion, and resume outdoor plumage for the swim home. The Loon hopes you enjoyed your day as much as she (despite growls and sighs) did hers. 
3887	Yes	The livestream of the LITA Board Meeting Part 2 from ALA Midwinter 2013 in Seattle is embedded below. Once the meeting wraps up, the recording will be swapped into it’s place. Free live streaming by Ustream 
3888	Yes	 1.8 billion pixels. Wide Area Stare. A million terabytes of video a day. (Skip the ad.) 
3889	Yes	My daughter plays the Bumblebee in “Buzz Off,” which both ended Act I and opened Act II in last weekend’s Stage Right! production of Pinkalicious. 
3890	Yes	At long last, a year into the MOOC frenzy, here comes Thomas Friedman with an oped in yesterday’s New York Times,   Revolution Hits the Universities . This breathlessly enthusiastic endorsement from Mr. Friedman ( The World is Flat ) should mark the high tide of the MOOC craze, and for all of us, I hope, the beginning of a more reasonable discussion of these new courses and the future of higher education. With Friedman’s late entry, perhaps we can safely say the MOOC bubble is about to burst. One reason this seems likely is that his high profile piece in The New York Times elicited barely a whimper from the digital humanities community. Friedman’s oped came on a day in which the twitter stream among digital humanities lit up over MOOCs, but not one of these scholars paid attention to Friedman’s pandering sycophancy. Instead, the real issues came up in Cathy Davidson’s  “Why MOOCs Are Not a BandAid For Higher Education’s Budgetary Woes,”    “Spy v. Spy: A Response to the Chronicle of Higher Education” , and “If We Profs Don’t Reform Higher Education, We’ll Be Re-Formed (and we won’t like it).”  (see #highered, #MOOC) Friedman’s piece was just one of a string of “disruptive” “transformative” “revolutionary” flavored assessments about how MOOCs will “reinvent” the future of higher education. To get a sense of the panic MOOCs have brought on, we only need to look to the other side of the pond yesterday and see the Times Education Section ‘s report on Cambridge University’s chancellor fretting that MOOCs will transform “the nature of higher education.” (“V-c warns of massive threat posed by MOOCs”) Because of his public audience, Friedman certainly gets attention. His piece generated over 285 comments before the day was over. But it seems that the hard, serious questions about how to transform higher education with technology are taking place in the digital humanities twittersphere and other similar venues. Ryan Cordell at Northeastern (@ryancordell), Cathy Davidson at HASTAC (@CathyNDavidson), Adeline Koh at Duke (@adelinekoh), Siva Vaidhyanathan at the University of Virginia (@sivavaid), and Edward L. Ayers at Richmond (forthcoming piece on a “more radical online revolution”) among many others in digital humanities are writing thoughtful and fascinating pieces on the real changes underway in higher education–in teaching and learning using technology, of which MOOCs are a part but perhaps not necessarily the most important. I could not ignore Friedman however. He does at least two things in yesterday’s piece that are very troubling. The first is his hook-line-and-sinker acceptance of Coursera’s sugary story that an autistic student and his parents appreciated the MOOC environment. Friedman and Coursera imply that the MOOC environment could transform opportunities for special needs students. But neither he nor Coursera seem willing to admit that such technologies could be used to exclude or profoundly limit access. Before going further I should say that my youngest daughter has Down syndrome and so while I do not doubt that this autistic student found great value in the MOOC experience (and applaud that), I want to point out the subtle manipulation of those with disabilities at work in Friedman’s piece. He uses this story in the service of another agenda without any apparent concern for the implications. This sort of scenario occurs daily in the life of my daughter, and it has been discussed among parents of children with special needs regularly from Michael Berube’s brilliant and inspired  Life as We Know It to yesterday’s thoughtful  New York Times piece by George Estreich “A child with Down syndrome keeps his place at the table.”  The frightening and retrograde idea that people with special needs can be set apart (to be special somewhere else) should be seen for what it is–exclusionary. The trade offs are vastly unequal: instead of school, here is an online link; instead of a professor, here is a video, instead of a place at the table, another table is set. Will the MOOCs mean less diversity in our institutions of higher learning? Perhaps. Does Coursera or any current MOOC provider seek to serve students with special needs in any real or meaningful way? Probably not–so why does Friedman bring it up? Why does Coursera offer this particular story to him? It makes those who do not confront the daily challenges of navigating the world with disabilities feel good about something they otherwise might find vaguely threatening–a revolution in higher education. It desensitizes us, however perversely, to the very issue we should be more alert to in this drama: access and equal opportunity. Second, one of the real issues of concern is that privately capitalized corporations running MOOCs through consortia of elite institutions, as presently described by Friedman, might flatten the landscape of higher education in ways that limit, rather than expand, access to quality instruction. In the name of efficiency public higher education might be stripped of resources. Using the technology to appear accessible, the elite institutions secure their positions by placing the real engagement on campus ever further from the reach of other students. Across the broad second and third tier of institutions, students might find fewer pathways, not more, into the system of higher education, as all sorts of courses are cut from campuses. Then these courses would only be available virtually, “at scale.” What is needed in this discussion, as Cathy Davidson, Siva Vaidhyanathan, and others in digital humanities so clearly recognize, is first and foremost to acknowledge the wider scope of online  research and practice which the MOOC bubble has obscured. To the amazement of the digital humanities scholars who have been thinking about and building mechanisms to teach more effectively using technology for over fifteen years, the current MOOC model appears to be a puzzling throwback, like suggesting we all take up closed circuit television or organize correspondence courses. In an episode of Seinfeld , Jerry assesses Kramer and Newman’s never-ending game of Risk as “a game of world domination being played by two guys who can barely run their own lives.” The character and tenor of MOOCs–their potential for realigning credit hours and their hundreds of thousands of “students”–might remind us of the game of Risk , and perhaps some of the leaders involved could appear to be a little bit like Kramer and Newman. In higher education at the moment we find it difficult to see beyond the next budget cut, the next course enrollment battle, the next assessment strategy.  But the debate over MOOCs in our departments and disciplines suggests a much broader opportunity and challenge before us:  in the humanities we need to begin building pedagogy for the digital age. We have seen rapid growth in the availability of digital archives and digital projects, yet our classroom practices have changed little. Students are confronted with millions of digital texts, yet they need skills to navigate the World Wide Web and numerous proprietary databases. They need the disciplinary habits of mind in the humanities to interpret and evaluate digital information, yet they are given few opportunities to participate in the creation of new knowledge. Imagine if we reorganized our classroom experience both in large lecture courses and more intensive seminars to create less anonymity and more dynamic learning, to allow students truly to participate in a “community of scholars.” We will be doing precisely this in The History Harvest  course soon–at least we are in the planning stages now for a MOOC-like distributed course next year with participating classes from all over the U.S. The vast changes in our classrooms and information technology have led to fundamental questions about our higher education enterprise, ones we should be asking. Why go to college when information is at your fingertips? What will we do with ten million books digitized online and searchable? What is a lecture course for? How can we use technology more effectively?  The emergence of the MOOC offers another opportunity, one that humanities and STEM faculty should embrace. But the justifications Coursera and Friedman have offered ring hollow and the unrestrained hyperbole about the “reinvention” of higher education could have the reverse effect of shutting down experimentation with MOOCs, just when we need it most. That would be a shame. 
3891	Yes	Text A: Uh-Oh, Photo Of Crying Woman On Cover Of National Newspaper Uh-oh, according to alarmed sources across the nation, a picture of a crying woman appeared on the front page of a national newspaper this morning.  “Ah, shit—this can’t be good,” Arlington, TX resident James Licari said… –The Onion Test B: What It Feels Like To Be Photographed In A Moment Of Grief “I sat there in a moment of devastation with my hands in prayer pose asking for peace and healing in the hearts of men,” she recalls. “I was having such a strong moment and my heart was open, and I started to cry.” | Her mood changed abruptly, she says, when “all of a sudden I hear clickclickclickclickclick all over the place. And there are people in the bushes, all around me, and they are photographing me, and now Im pissed. I felt like a zoo animal.” — NPR Discuss. 
3892	Yes	Computers offer us a wonderful opportunity to automate and ease some ofthe tasks associated with data cleanup and preparation in the humanities. After aconversation with a researcher at CESTA on Friday, I thought about aproblem he was confronting with a spreadsheet of data he is collectingthat contains many thousands of rows. In particular, he is consideringsome methods for data mining and text analysis. The research deals inpart regarding notes taken by a British consulate about freed slaves in the nineteenthcentury and, in this case, he wanted a method for extracting theconsulate’s notes based on criteria regarding the slaves he wrote about.It would be simple enough to do some basic work like this within aspreadsheet by sorting columns based on criteria like gender oroccupation, but adding those two together (e.g., where gender is“male” and occupation is “farmhand”) becomes a trickier task in aspreadsheet. To work around this problem, I whipped up a couple of quick Ruby scriptsthis afternoon. The first script does most of the heavy lifting byiterating through a csv file and finding the matching options. Then,out of those matches, I locate the column that contains the data I wantand tell the script to write to STDOUT (or pipe the output to a textfile). #!/usr/bin/env ruby require #39;csv#39; # Load file csv_fname = #39;file.csv#39; # Key is the column to check, value is what to match search_critera = { #39;sex#39; =gt; #39;female#39; , #39;race#39; =gt; #39;white#39; } options = { :headers =gt; :first_row , :converters =gt; [ :numeric ] } # Save `matches` and a copy of the `headers` matches = nil headers = nil # Iterate through the `csv` file and locate where # data matches the options. CSV . open ( csv_fname , quot;rquot; , options ) do | csv | matches = csv . find_all do | row | match = true search_critera . keys . each do | key | match = match amp;amp; ( row [ key ] == search_critera [ key ] ) end match end headers = csv . headers end # Once matches are found, we print the results # for a specific row. The row `row[8]` is # tied specifically to a notes field. matches . each do | row | row = row [ 8 ] puts row end You’ll have to play around with the script if you’re looking to use itfor your own purposes. The script is very purpose built and not at allrobust or inter-operable. The script begins by offering criteria to look for. The criteria are a key- value pairing. The key corresponds to the csv header (in this case, sex ) and looks for the string within that column (here, female ). The options should be able to handle as many criteria as needed, but I have not tested this thoroughly. Then, the script opens the csv file and iterates throughthe data to locate criteria and stores the results (either true or false ) inside matches .Finally, the results stored within matches are run againsta row of data I want to collect (in this case, row[8] contains the data that I want). Any place where matches isequal to true , the script grabs the data from row[8] and stores the results in row , which isthen output to the screen. I suspect the script will become more complicated in the near future.One problem I’m thinking about already has to do with the way theresearcher I mentioned at the beginning collected his spreadsheet dataregarding the occupation of a freed slave. For example, some occupationsare simply listed as “cook” while others contained a conjunction “cookand farmhand.” The problem with my script is it doesn’t have built-in fuzzy finding and looks for explicit strings (“cook” means “cook”, not“Cook” or “COOK”). As a quick fix for this, and as a way to check thedata for accuracy, I have a second script I put together that simplycounts the number of occurrences for a given row. #!/usr/bin/env ruby require #39;csv#39; # create an array to store the count data unique_count = {} # let#39;s count! CSV . foreach ( #39;file.csv#39; , :headers =gt; true ) do | row | unique_count [ row [ 3 ]] ||= 0 unique_count [ row [ 3 ]] += 1 end # print! unique_count . each do | val , count | puts quot; #{ val } : #{ count } time(s)quot; end Nothing complicated here. The script starts by creating an empty arraythen loads the data in. In this case, I want to check the data in row[3] . The script iterates through each row in the csv and stores a count for each unique item in the row. Theresults are displayed as a value - count pairing. Running the scriptgives something like this: female: 36 time(s) male: 24 time(s) The script exists more as an aid for me as I think through the previous script: I can find unique occurrences of things like gender, occupation, street addresses, and so on, which also locates misspellings or inconsistent data. Furthermore, until I add fuzzy finding to the previous script, the counting script allows me to see unique strings that I can add as search criteria to ensure I’m collecting all the data I want. 
3893	Yes	It’s that time of year, when you should turn your attention toward who among your friends, colleagues or even total strangers, should be nominated for an SAA award. There’s a mighty long list of awards for you to consider. I’ll try to highlight some others before the Feb. 28 deadline, but I’ve been asked to promote the Leland Award which I will happily do.  Call for Nominations: 2013 SAA Waldo Gifford Leland Award   Please help us to recognize the best in our profession! Have you read a great new book about archives? Seen an exceptional new finding aid? Encountered a new documentary publication that is head and shoulders above the rest? Has a new web publication really stood out to you? If you have, please consider nominating it for the Society of American Archivists Waldo Gifford Leland Award. Nomination forms, a list of previous winners, and more information are at  http://www2.archivists.org/governance/handbook/section12-leland . The deadline for nominations is February 28, 2013. The annual Leland Award – a cash prize and certificate – recognizes “writing of superior excellence and usefulness in the field of archival history, theory, and practice.” (Please note that periodicals are not eligible.) Established in 1959, this award honors American archival pioneer Waldo Gifford Leland (1879–1966), president of the Society of American Archivists in the 1940s and one of the driving forces behind the founding of the National Archives. Want to learn more about Waldo? Here’s an excellent book for you: Waldo Gifford Leland and the Origins of the American Archival Profession . (I say it’s excellent but I haven’t yet read it. Maybe another candidate for the book club?) 
3894	Yes	 Pay Nothing? Easier Said Than Done, http://t.co/S33b84F9 Bamp;N #39;Could Close a Third of Stores in Next Decade#39;, http://t.co/k2O8odii How Unlocking Your Phone May Now Be a Crime: $500,000 Fines and 5 Years in Prison for First Offense, http://t.co/H7dgyUXR Palgrave Macmillan Announces Open Access Option for Monographs and Palgrave Pivot Publications, http://t.co/hbjDM33N | Digital Scholarship | The post Current News: Twitter Updates for 1/28/2013 appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3895	Yes	January 28, 2013 | SEK &#xd; An old (and far more talented ) friend of mine responded to the discussion Rob and I had about frame rate : &#xd; &#xd; The choice to go from 24 fps to 48 fps was that some &#xd;filmmakers really hated the strobing effect when the camera pans in 3-D&#xd; versions of movies. Their solution was to up the frame rate—giving &#xd;the filmmaker more information to play around with. Honestly, the 24 &#xd;fps strobing never bothered me, cause if you are telling your story &#xd;right, little nitpicks like the don’t enter the mind of your audience. &#xd; &#xd; For reasons unclear even to me, I responded to his gentle correction with A Brief and Inadequate History of Special Effects : &#xd; &#xd; I didn’t want to get too technical in the podcast, but I&#xd; was hinting at that: 3-D created a problem that didn’t previously &#xd;exist, and the solution is worse than the original problem. No more &#xd;strobing, but now the effects are so obviously “special” that we may as&#xd; well be watching the original Clash of the Titans . An &#xd;incredible film, don’t get me wrong, it just required a superhuman &#xd;suspension of disbelief. Which at the time was fine, because “special &#xd;effects” like George Reeves flashing across the sky were meant to be &#xd;“special,” outside of the ordinary, and didn’t need to look as if they &#xd;were of this world or obeyed its laws of physics. &#xd; I tend to think George Lucas ruined this fantastical acceptance of &#xd;the specialness of “special” effects when he married recognizably &#xd;modernist styles with space stations and star ships—the Millennium &#xd;Falcon could’ve been a Le Corbusier, the stormtroopers come from the &#xd;mind of an Italian fascist, and half the scenery consisted of the same &#xd;brutalist style that litters my campus. Point being, his realist &#xd;aesthetic made “special” effects look quaint, the people who loved them&#xd; rubes, and that’s where we’ve been ever since. Realism or naught! &#xd;Realism or naught! (With a few exceptions, Del Toro notably among &#xd;them.) &#xd; So I could understand why Jackson wanted The Hobbit to&#xd; accede to the demands of the regnant style, but in doing so he utterly&#xd; ruined his film. I mentioned in the podcast that the best scene in the&#xd; film, Bilbo’s encounter with Gollum, looked like exactly what it was: &#xd;Martin Freeman in front of a green screen talking to a man in ping-pong&#xd; ball covered suit. (I know that’s not how they do it anymore but you &#xd;know what I mean.) It looked like Jackson had decided to avoid the &#xd;uncanny valley by introducing its monstrous child to an actual human &#xd;being and hoping the audience wouldn’t be able to tell the difference. &#xd;I’m not going to say it made me want to cry, but I’m not going to deny I&#xd; teared up a bit at the sheer waste of it all. &#xd; Like you, I’m more interested in the story, so if the technological &#xd;advances can be integrated into it—like the conference tables in Avatar —I’m&#xd; fine with that because it complements the narrative. But I don’t even &#xd;think we need 3-D. It took us millions of years to develop the &#xd;particular sort of stereoscopic vision we have, and our brains react to &#xd; an “occupied periphery” the same way now as they did before: by &#xd;flooding our bodies with hormones that make us nervous, tense, excited,&#xd; afraid, etc. Since our eyes still point forward, you don’t need &#xd;anything more fancy than an IMAX to occupy our peripheries, and I’m &#xd;fine with that. &#xd; &#xd; I thought I was talking about special effects and their more &#xd;cloyingly “special” forbears, but the real sore spot for me here is the &#xd;blind lionization of a limited definition of “realism.” Don’t &#xd;misunderstand me: I find relocating fantastic narratives to a world that&#xd; resembles ours an admirable endeavor. Heath Ledger’s interpretation of &#xd;the “Joker” outstrips Jack Nicholson’s because we don’t need a vat of &#xd;quasi-mystical chemical slurry to believe that a child of neglect and &#xd;poverty might come to resent those he believes kicked him down to choke &#xd;him out. I’m all for grounding narratives that occur in fictional worlds&#xd; in ones that mostly obey the rules of ours. I’m on board with Battlestar Galactica and (though I’ll never admit it) I even watch Arrow .&#xd; But the “reality” of “realism” has to amount to more than a little &#xd;extra grease smeared on the walls of some backlot “Brooklyn.” Because &#xd;when “competitive realism” becomes a sport the audience always loses. &#xd;Embracing filth for love of the slop as an ethos would be one thing, but embracing it as an aesthetic out of devotion to an empty notion of what constitutes “realism” is more than just a thing: &#xd;&#xd;It’s a terrible one.&#xd; Consider the most common way to impart unrehearsed immediacy to a &#xd;scene: the shaky cam, proud descendent of the cameras carried by war &#xd;reporters who (we imagine) ran alongside the men whose deaths they &#xd;documented. Because deep in the ancestral soul of every shaky cam is a &#xd;connection to the atavism whose jittering eye (we imagine) once captured&#xd; soldiers piling up in Norman shallows. Because the essence of the &#xd;physical circumstances of war correspondents (we imagine) is transferred&#xd; not just into the tool they used, the shaky cam, but into scenes whose &#xd;style bears a family resemblance to ones shot with them. I added “we &#xd;imagine” to the previous sentences because many people believe in what &#xd;amounts to a form of idolatry when it comes to the shaky cam shot: God &#xd;the War Correspondent infuses His essence into the totem of His Shaky &#xd;Cam in such a way that all evidence of shakiness in film represent an &#xd;invocation of His Brave Reportage. &#xd; Which is the height of insanity considering the ubiquity of &#xd;shaky cams and shots designed to resemble them. Otherwise we must &#xd;believe that the Great War Correspondent is present when a teenage girl &#xd;on a soap opera throws a temper tantrum and slams her bedroom door &#xd;behind her. Because shaky cams capture plenty of those. Not to mention &#xd;celebrities. His Journalistic Eminence must love celebrities. &#xd;Just turn on the television between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. and witness the &#xd;celebrity-chasing that passes for “local news” now. Those cams are all &#xd;a-shaking and there’s not a single noble soldier dying lonely on a &#xd;foreign shore in sight. &#xd; We’ve established that the shaky cam’s war-oriented history is partly&#xd; responsible for why it’s considered “better” at creating “realistic” &#xd;representations of the world. We’ve now also taken our first step toward&#xd; understanding why “realism” is associated with misery: its tools are .&#xd; Think about it: a shaky cam can almost perfectly approximate the &#xd;swiveling eye-level perspective of a human head, so if its operator &#xd;breaks into a run the resulting images are almost perfectly identical to&#xd; what you would have seen were you the one doing the running. That makes&#xd; sense. But before we continue I want you to take a look at this &#xd;picture: &#xd; It’s&#xd; from science. Which one isn’t important because, for now, I just want &#xd;to compare the movement of the human head relative to the body while &#xd;walking and running. Humans have evolved to walk chill. Just look at our&#xd; head bob as we strut around in our hilariously skinny jeans. But look &#xd;what happens when we hear a car backfire in one of “those” &#xd;neighborhoods: our stride lengthens and center of gravity lowers, &#xd;meaning we’re more stable than we were before we nearly shat our tiny &#xd;pants. Now take a look at our running-head. What happened to our &#xd;swagger? I’ll be brief: because a bipedal gait is inherently unstable, &#xd;our head has a tendency to pitch forward when we run; and because &#xd;evolution looks unkindly upon individuals who flee danger by planting &#xd;their face where their feet ought to be, we’ve evolved a robust &#xd;musculoskeletal system that keeps our head up and eyes front when we &#xd;pick up the pace.* &#xd; So our head bop up-and-down atop an unflexed musculoskeletal &#xd;apparatus when we walk, but when we break into a run that same apparatus&#xd; yanks our head back and stabilizes our body in a way that prevents our &#xd;head from bopping. Meaning that when we run our eye-level rarely varies,&#xd; whereas when we walk it’s constantly moving which is the opposite of the “realistic” effect provided by the shaky cam . Consider this randomly selected clip: &#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd;&#xd; While the frightened children walk the handheld camera is canted, but&#xd; the level of framing barely bobs at all. We have no bobbing where a &#xd;“realism” conforming to human biomechanics would require it. But when &#xd;the frightened children start running at 1:33, the level of framing bobs&#xd; up a foot and down another with every step. Meaning we have excessive &#xd;bobbing where a “realism” conforming to human biomechanics would demand &#xd;none. Shots from a shaky cam are only more “realistic” if we define &#xd;“realism” as “an aesthetic commitment to seeing something and &#xd;representing it the opposite.” We’re not about to do that. So where do &#xd;we stand now? &#xd; We know that shots from shaky cams look more “realistic” by means of &#xd;an accident of journalistic history and by virtue of the fact that they &#xd;represent the world not as it is but as the opposite. Keep in mind that &#xd;this is the shot whose realist credentials most would consider &#xd;unimpeachable and you begin to see what an aesthetic commitment to &#xd;realism entails: the perpetual recreation of the contingent &#xd;circumstances in which the shaky cam shot became popular and &#xd;secondary elaborations on those contingent circumstances that borrow the&#xd; “realist” credentials of the original while doing the opposite of what &#xd;happens in reality. Considering that this is the strongest case&#xd; a committed realist could make, you can see the kinds of problems that &#xd;might arise were a spirit of “competitive realism” to sweep through a &#xd;generation of filmmakers. How can they be more “realistic” than &#xd;journalism’s happy accident and the opposite of evolutionary &#xd;development? What’s more “realistic” than the opposite of perceived &#xd;reality? &#xd; Because not even they can answer questions that make no sense, &#xd;they’ll change the terms of the debate to features common to the happy &#xd;accident: the shaky cam will be used in scenes in which battles rage and&#xd; men are confused. Then they’ll extend the purview of “battles” to &#xd;include arguments and cast a net wide over all manner of confusions. Now&#xd; a man will “battle” with his balance and his wife until he runs from an&#xd; apartment confused because he’s sober and single and in order to imbue &#xd;the scene with the “realism” it requires it’ll have to be filmed by a &#xd;trampolining meth addict. My example’s admittedly extreme, but you see &#xd;my point: if historical accidents and perceptual inaccuracies become the&#xd; standard for “realism,” a competition can only result in increasingly &#xd;random exaggerations. (That they’re mistaken for transparent representations of reality only makes the situation more infuriating.) &#xd; All of which is only to say that there’s nothing realistic about &#xd;cinematic “realism,” but there is something more realistic about films &#xd;that aspire to it than, say, animated features or movies starring &#xd;Muppets. I’ll grant you that. But once you start talking about crafting &#xd;something that’s “more realistic” than previous films, you run into a &#xd;whole host of problems. In literature, when a group of young writers &#xd;tried to be more-real-than-the-realists, the result was literary &#xd;naturalism, and the aesthetic of the current crop of directors seems &#xd;aligned with them—its cities are sullied, its fields despoiled, its &#xd;masses uneasy—but the aesthetic of the literary naturalists was built on&#xd; science. Bad science, I admit, but science nonetheless. &#xd;Literary naturalists had a reason to believe the boot on their neck &#xd;would be crusted in shit if not covered in blood: their science told &#xd;them so. Not so for the current realists, for whom the legacy of &#xd;perceptually incorrect happy accidents suffices. Theirs is an empty &#xd;aesthetic turned pissing-contest and we’re the ones getting the golden &#xd;shower. &#xd; What does this have to do with Peter Jackson filming The Hobbit in&#xd; 48 frames-per-second? If, as my friend says, Jackson shot at that &#xd;frame-rate because he wanted to avoid a nearly unnoticeable strobing, he&#xd; presumably did so because he felt that it would break the illusion on &#xd;which cinema depends. If the audience notices the limitations of the &#xd;camera, it becomes aware that there’s a camera between it and the world &#xd;depicted on-screen. Since we don’t see strobe effects of the sort in the&#xd; real world, we shouldn’t see them on the screen because they’re &#xd;unrealistic. His solution was to eliminate the strobing by making sure that illusion was never created in the first place . Because you can’t be ripped from a world you’re not immersed in. &#xd; Of course I don’t actually believe that’s what Jackson intended, but I&#xd; do believe he thought it was his turn to up the competitive realist &#xd;ante. The long explanation above is meant, in part, to &#xd;communicate why Jackson would agree to participate in this competition. &#xd;The conventions are so naturalized it’s almost impossible not to think &#xd;of them as realistic, so it takes so heavy-duty defamiliarization to &#xd;recognize them for what they are. Put differently, I think Del Toro &#xd;would’ve made a Hobbit in a style that recognized that the &#xd;“special” in “special effects” isn’t something to run away from, because&#xd; such effects are only slightly less contrived than their “realist” &#xd;counterparts and can be far more effective when telling a story, say, &#xd;about wizards and magic rings. &#xd; *For more on that, see Dennis Bramble and Daniel Lieberman, whose hipster I borrowed above, and much of whose work can be downloaded free of charge from Lieberman’s site . 
3896	Yes	 [S]ize seems to predict lifespan. The formula seems to be nature’s way to preserve larger creatures who need time to grow and prosper, and it not only operates in all living things, but even in the cells of living things. It tells animals for example, that there’s a universal limit to life, that though they come in different sizes, they have roughly a billion and a half heart beats; elephant hearts beat slowly, hummingbird hearts beat fast, but when your count is up, you are over. Plants pulse as well, moving nourishment through their veins. They obey the same commands of scale, and when the formula says “you’re done,” amazingly, the buttercup and the redwood tree obey. Why a specific mathematical formula should govern all of us, I don’t completely understand, but when the math says, “it’s time,” off we go … – NPR 
3897	Yes	 The kairotic nature of online scholarly community building MediaCommons Screen shot 2013-01-29 at 12.44.12 AM.png Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities right 
3898	Yes	 CFP: New Works on Electronic Literature and Cyberculture CLCWeb: Comparative Literature and Culture 16.5 Deadline:March 1, 2013 Email to : mzalbidea [at] lasallecampus.es This CFP is aimed at participants in the 2012 ELVA  conference on Electronic Literature amp; other scholars of electronic literature.  Participants can submit their conference papers, but all relevant critical works will be considered.  The selected papers will be published on New Works on Electronic Literature and Cyberculture of CLCWeb: Comparative Literature and Culture 16.5 (2014): (Purdue University Press ISSN 1481-4374). lt; http://docs.lib.purdue.edu/clcweb gt; Guest edited by Maya Zalbidea Paniagua (Universidad La Salle, Madrid), Asunción López Varela (Universidad Complutense, Madrid) and Mark C. Marino (University of Southern California), the theme of the special issue, in the context of digital humanities, is the critical, social, philosophical, gendered, and pedagogical aspects of electronic literature, digital art, and cyberculture. Please send papers in 6000-7000 words to Maya Zalbidea at by March 1st 2013. Of particular interest are papers on cybertext/hypertext theory and application; hypertext fiction (flash fiction, e-poetry, digital storytelling, online graphic novels, etc.); game studies, net and video art; and gender, identity, race, and sexuality in cyberspace. For the style of the journal consult http://docs.lib.purdue.edu/clcweblibrary/clcwebstyleguide. Articles published in the journal are double-blind peer reviewed and indexed, among others, in the Thomson Reuters ISI Arts and Humanities Citation Index and Social Sciences Citation Index. For more information contact Maya Zalbidea Paniagua, Universidad La Salle, Madrid 
3899	Yes	 Tired of people tweeting what they’re about to eat? Well, according to the NYTimes , so are high-end restauranteurs. When it comes to people taking photographs of their meals, the chef David Bouley has seen it all. There are the foreign tourists who, despite their big cameras, tend to be very discreet. There are those who use a flash and annoy everyone around them. There are those who come equipped with gorillapods — those small, flexible tripods to use on their tables. There are even those who stand on their chairs to shoot their plates from above. “We get on top of those folks right away or else it’s like a circus,” Mr. Bouley said. Just for the record, I’m having tea and toast with home-made marmalade at the moment. Not worth a photograph. 
3900	Yes	En aquesta última entrada he volgut fer una petita explicació de que representen per a mi les TIC aplicades a l’ensenyament i de dos dels recursos que utilitzo per pensar les TIC. Intentaré respondre a la pregunta Com puc començar? Bloc Indispensable poder tenir un bloc per poder comunicar-te amb els alumnes. En el meu cas és wordpress , però també n’hi d’altres com blogger . En aquest punt és molt important que el bloc sigui capaç de poder inserir vídeos i arxius de veu. És molt senzill tenir-ne un, és gratuït, i el funcionament és molt bàsic i intuïtiu. Marcador Molts dels professors amb els que parlo em comenten que Internet és una pèrdua de temps. I no deixen de tenir raó, al menys per a ells. Crec que hi ha una sola raó. No poden memoritzar totes les pàgines que visiten. Quan un fa una cerca per Internet passa per moltes pàgines. Sota el meu punt de vista serà determinant per l’èxit o el fracàs l’organització de la cerca, però també la capacitat del professor per emmagatzemar tot allò que veu. Jo utilitzo diigo . És un eina que s’instal·la en el navegador i que ens permet, amb un sol click, guardar aquella adreça que hem visitat i donar-li un tag, de tal manera que sempre puc anar al meu diigo i veure quines pàgines he visitat i cercar-les per noms o tag. Ho explico amb un exemple. Jo puc estar fent una cerca però en aquell moment no destinaré, per exemple, més de 30 minuts. Com que ho sé i sé que no podré preparar materials, simplement vaig marcant al meu diigo totes aquelles pàgines que em semblen rellevants pel tema de la cerca, li dono un tag, i passats els 30 minuts tanco tot. Un cop disposo de temps vaig al meu diigo i allà tindré totes les pàgines que he guardat amb aquell tag. Ara ja puc treballar amb els materials. Penso que és un recurs molt important. Penseu que fent aquesta cerca de l’exemple ens trobem molt sovint amb altres materials. El que fem és exactament el mateix, ho guardem al nostre diigo i li donem un tag diferent. Desprès tindrem un llistat de tags. I com a mostra un botó. Aquest és el meu diigo  i aquest  el meu llistat de tags. Clicant sobre qualsevol d’ells us sortirà un llistat de les webs que en algun moment he visitat i he cregut interessant pel meu treball o pel futur. També és poden fer grups de tal manera que qualsevol modificació de la llista d’enllaços d’un dels participants serà anotat a la llista de cada usuari particular. És un eina molt maca per treballar amb els vostres alumnes. Altres recursos per educació No li dic així en va és la traducció de l’acrònim OER, Other Educational Resources. Només heu de fer una visita a OER Commons  per veure el potencial de l’ús de recursos compartits. Òbviament això no acaba aquí, hi ha infinitat de recursos, tant d’eines per utilitzar com llocs d’Internet per apropar-nos i veure materials. El que aquí he volgut mostrar és únicament alguns punts a tenir presents. Sé que ha estat fet d’una forma desestructurada i poc completa però no és un curs per ningú, són les ràpides reflexions per una assignatura del Màster. M’he deixat els famosos twitter i facebook, on podem fer sessions sincròniques i asincròniques o fer grups de treball, o de comunicació, i moltes altres coses, per aquesta inexactitud, de la qual en sóc conscient i veig clarament en les entrades, demano disculpes. 
3901	Yes	 i like this art : Fach amp; Asendorf Gallery  is running a new exhibition called Juxtapose by  Daniel Schwarz  consisting in a series of images taken directly from Google Maps that expose distant places, far from society, shown simultaneously under the force of contrary seasons and weather phenomena at varying times. The images arise from glitches which are created automatically when Google Maps’ algorithm stitches images of updated photos with prior recorded ones together in a grid- like view. The glitched images force viewers to interrogate how technology changes our understanding of time, space and place. 
3902	Yes	 On January 17th the students and faculty at Acadia University invited historian John G. Reid to provide historical context to the #IdleNoMore movement.  This hour long lecture builds on Reid’s forty-year career as a historian of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century northeastern North America and expert witness in a number of court cases involving Treaty and Aboriginal Rights. It situates #IdleNoMore within the eighteenth-century Peace and Friendship treaties struck between the British and the Mi’kmaq, Wulstukwuik and Passamaquoddy.  In drawing out the significance of these treaties today, Reid contextualizes Maritime treaty-making in its oral and broader historical context, comparing them with treaties made elsewhere in Canada and the British Empire.  This talk was sponsored by the Indigenous Students Society at Acadia , and the Departments of Politics and History and Classics . John Reid is a professor of history at Saint Mary’s University.  He is the author of numerous books including Acadia, Maine and New Scotland: Marginal Colonies in the Seventeenth Century and The ‘Conquest’ of Acadia, 1710 . In the past decade, he has also authored two persuasive journal articles in The William and Mary Quarterly and Acadiensis that encouraged scholars to re-evaluate the place of Native people in Maritime Canada. He is a member of the Royal Society of Canada as well as numerous other scholarly associations and editorial boards. Over the course of his career he has also served as an expert witness in a number of cases involving aboriginal and treaty rights.     
3903	Yes	 the Presentation day on Multilingual Information Management and Synchronization of wiki-pages. Date: coming Friday (1 February) at CWI in Amsterdam. Invited speakers: Andy O’Dwyer , project manager at BBC Angelika Mühlbauer , project manager at Wikimedia Germany Assaf Shamia ,  New Ventures Consultant at the Strascheg Center for Entrepreneurship (panel) Guy Kedar , Social Media and Emerging Platforms Manager at media agency MEC Address: Science Park 123 , 1098 XG Amsterdam Room: Euler zaal, CWI. Entrance: free Please find the programme here 
3904	Yes	Blanquita Suárez fou una artista còmica que va néixer a al Teatre Principal de Sant Sebastián a principis del segle XX i va morir pels volts de 1970. Provenia d’una família dedicada tradicionalment a l’espectacle : el seu avi era apuntador del Teatre Apolo , el seu pare era baríton, la seva mare corista de sarsuela i la seva germana, Cándida Suárez, una soprano reconeguda que va triomfar durant els anys 30 i 40. Fotografia de Blanquita Suárez. Font: Fundación El Molino | Blanquita Suárez . Pablo Picasso. Barcelona, 1917. Oli sobre tela. Donatiu de l’artista el 1970 Blanquita es va iniciar en el món dels escenaris als 12 anys en el Puerto de la Luz de Canarias i al llarg de la seva carrera va actuar en operetes, revistes, en el denominat género chico , com a vedette i cupletista. Com moltes actrius de l’època, Blanquita va gravar varis discos i va participar com a actriu secundària en  diverses pel·lícules . El 1918 es va presentar com a estrella de varietats al teatre Eldorado de Barcelona , però no va ser fins que va actuar al Paral·lel que va esdevenir una actriu reconeguda a la ciutat comtal. Teatre Eldorado reformat per l’arquitecte Bruguera el 1910. Font: Barcelonafília Picasso freqüentava els locals de diversió barcelonins de l’època on possiblement va coincidir amb Blanquita Suárez i es va fixar en ella com a model per a les seves obres. D’aquesta connexió es conserven uns esbossos de la cantant còmica al Museé National Picasso Paris i l’oli del Museu Picasso Blanquita Suárez , pintat a Barcelona el 1917. Entrevista a Blanquita Suárez a La Vanguardia el 7 d’octubre de 1958 Actualment aquest quadre està cedit a l’exposició “ El Paral·lel, 1894-1939. Barcelona i l’espectacle de la modernitat ”, del CCCB, que recull l’oferta cultural barcelonina que es donà durant més de 40 anys a l’avinguda del Paral·lel de la ciutat. Cristina Martín Xarxes socials Referències i enllaços Fitxa de l’ obra Blanquita Suárez a la web del Museu Picasso Catàleg de l’exposició “El Paral·lel, 1894-1939. Barcelona i l’espectacle de la modernitat”. Diputació de Barcelona. CCCB. Barcelona, 2012 Exposició “ El Paral·lel, 1894-1939. Barcelona i l’espectacle de la modernitat ” al CCCB Fitxa de l’ artista Blanquita Suárez a la web de la Fundació El Molino Entrevista en la secció “Mano a mano” de la La Vanguardia Española. Dimarts 7 d’octubre de 1958, pàgina 28 Le nouveau dictionaire Picasso de Pierre Daix. Robert Laffont. París, 2012 Article “ Teatre Eldorado ” del blog Barcelofília Els altres habitants del museu Mª Dolores Ruiz Picasso José Ruiz Picasso María Picasso Blasco Josefa Ruiz Blanco L’Arlequí Bendetta Canals Fernande Olivier Sebastià Junyent Carles Casagemas Vidal-Ventosa Reventós 
3905	Yes	I’ve been doing occasional posts on things overlooked in the DC area–stuff you might miss if you were just in town for a short time, or things even local people don’t know anything about. This next one is pretty remarkable. The Billy Goat Trail runs along the Potomac river and the old Camp;O canal. It’s spectacular and rugged, and when you’re on it you can hardly believe you’re so close to DC. It’s just outside the beltway on the Maryland side of the river, along McArthur Boulevard. Of the three sections section A is the most interesting. It’s a rugged hike that involves a lot of rock climbing and scrambling, and even a semi-famous cliff. For us, coming from South on the compass, it starts easily enough, along the canal towpath across the street from the Old Angler’s Inn. You come to a place where the canal is as wide as a small lake, with rocky islands in it. From there the trail, breaking off to the left, is remarkably varied. There are small rocky hills, streams to cross, and sandy beaches where you can take a lunch break. There are marshy parts and pine woods. But the highlight is probably Mather Gorge, just south of Great Falls: Here it is on an overcast New Year’s day.   That blue mark in the foreground is a blaze. It’s a very well marked trail, and pretty heavily used. As you walk along you see kayakers on the river and climbers working the cliffs on the Virginia side. Kids love the scrambling, but this part is a little intimidating:   It’s called “the traverse,” and it’s a 50 foot climb or drop. It’s easier going up, starting from the north,  than it is coming down.   But my daughter was only seven when this picture was taken (she’s in the pink coat) and she made it down, with a little help from her mom. So it’s not too hard. It’s getting harder for me, I have to admit. The trail is a great place to see herons, terrapins, lizards and snakes, bluebirds, and deer. It’s geologically fascinating, with warped and layered, heavily weathered rock formations, full of round potholes scoured out by the river millennia ago.   After the gorge you come out again on the canal path, and can hike a mile or so north to Great Falls, or enjoy an easy flat walk back to the parking lot, full of equally beautiful views. In the picture below, that’s the towpath on the left. If you’re hungry, or cold, the Old Angler’s Inn is just across the street and has a great bar with a fireplace. They used to have a dress code, but they’ve recently made it much more welcoming to hikers and kayakers. The park Service does include this sign, posted at the north end of the trail: It’s a rugged trail, and not quite five miles round trip. But a seven year old can do it, and so can a 53 year old sedentary historian. There’s a section along the gorge where you are picking your way along some very thin ridges of rock, and the Park Service says people do fall and get hurt. But we’ve done it in heat and snow, in all seasons, and it’s always beautiful and always interesting.   
3906	Yes	Diane J. Graves has self-archived quot; Scholarly Communications and the Role of the Liberal Arts College Library quot; in Digital Commons @ Trinity. Here#39;s an excerpt: One of the most puzzling aspects of the entire conversation around scholarly communication—the impact of existing models, the search for alternatives, the need for advocacy—is the assumption that it is the purview of Carnegie Research I institutions first and foremost, followed by those institutions with robust doctoral programs. The corollary is that small academic libraries—college libraries at liberal arts institutions, in particular—are not significant players in the conversation, nor should they be. Many in the academy, including those who work at such institutions, tend to think that the liberal arts college environment is too small to have a significant voice in the debate over alternatives to traditional models. . . . Scenarios that look ahead to the next decade and beyond would be wise to look closely at the impact the small college library can have on the very lifeblood and purpose of libraries: the collection and dissemination of scholarly content. | Transforming Scholarly Publishing through Open Access: A Bibliography (paperback, PDF file, and XHTML website; over 1,100 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post quot;Scholarly Communications and the Role of the Liberal Arts College Libraryquot; appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3907	Yes	The McGill University Library is recruiting a Digitization amp; Preservation Librarian. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : To manage the current digital collections and work with the campus community on digitization and preservation of the library#39;s special and circulating collections. Lead the development and the implementation of digital projects. Provide advice in the acquisition of born-digital library material. | Digital Scholarship | The post Digitization amp; Preservation Librarian at McGill University Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3908	Yes	The Texas Digital Library has released the TDL Survey 2012: A Survey of Member Librarians and Users . Here#39;s an excerpt: Beginning in April 2011, the TDL reorganized its leadership and focus on service rather than software development. In November 2011, the TDL Governing Board outlined a series of Strategic Initiatives intended to guide TDL activities and provide direction for member libraries, the leadership at those libraries and TDL full-time staff. The development and deployment of a comprehensive survey was an initial goal of the Strategic Plan, in order to: review the state of TDL services among members investigate outreach and communication regarding TDL both between TDL and its members and between member libraries and their constituents examine the organizational structure of TDL and determine if the past and current structure can be improved upon | Institutional Repository and ETD Bibliography 2011 (paperback and PDF file; over 600 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post TDL Survey 2012: A Survey of Member Librarians and Users appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3909	Yes	The Montana State Library is recruiting a Library Systems Programmer-Analyst. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : If PURLs, XML, and MARC make your heart beat faster, consider joining a small, nimble group of information professionals at the Montana State Library using new technologies to preserve and provide access to historic and current state government information in a fast changing social, mobile, digital library environment. The Library Systems Programmer/Analyst administers, documents, and supports library technologies and collaborates with other staff to implement discovery, acquisition, description, access, preservation, security, and repository services. This position reports to the Library Information Services Manager and works interdepartmentally with other MSL information technology staff. | Digital Scholarship | The post Library Systems Programmer-Analyst at Montana State Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3910	Yes	 Mindenki tisztában van azzal, hogy a tudományos könyvkiadás nem mehet tovább úgy, ahogy eddig. Egész egyszerűen a jelenlegi modell nem finanszírozható tovább – előbb-utóbb látványosan bedől, még akkor is, ha egyelőre a vészharangok kongatásánál tartunk, és mindenki azt gondolja, a digitális átállás megmenti a nagy neveket. Hát, nem fogja. És ne is tegye, nem azért van. A digitalizációnak köszönhető változások egyike az  open access nagy publicitása és volumenje, aminél jelen pillanatban nem sok jobb ötlet merült fel. A nyílt hozzáférés ugyanis jó a szerzőnek (az eddigieknél jóval nagyobb olvasottságot hoz, ennek következtében növekvő idézettséget jelenthet), jó az olvasónak (aki így hozzáférhet a legkurrensebb kutatások eredményeihez, lépést tarthat a világ tudományos közbeszédének friss témáival, és persze hozzá is járulhat mindehhez), és ha ügyes kiadó kezeli a folyamatokat, még ő is kifejezetten jól járhat (tévhit, hogy a nyílt hozzáférés ingyen munkát és a pénz megszűnését jelenti). Ez mind szép, de igazán jól működő, hasznos, hosszú távon fenntartható modellt eleddig kevesen tudtak kidolgozni – pláne a könyvtári szféra nem profitál túl sokat az egész felbuzdulásból (de legalábbis nem annyit, amennyire szükség volna). Ennek orvoslására egy igen érdekes kezdeményezés indult nemrég. Míg jelenleg úgy működik a rendszer, hogy egy könyvtár akkor jut újabb kötetekhez, ha 1) vásárol magának; 2) köteles példányt kap; 3) valaki adományként juttat el néhány kiadványt, és ebből az is jól látszik, hogy kiszámítható, jövőbemutató modellről korántsem beszélhetünk, addig néhány könyvtár úgy gondolta, ebből elég, magát a rendszert kell átformálni, ha életben akarnak maradni. Itt lép be a Knowledge Unlatched nevű non-profit szervezet, ami a következő folyamatot koordinálja: a kiadó/szerző nevezi megírandó témáját a programba, majd a könyvtárak szemlézik a felhozatalt, és valamennyi összeggel támogatják azokat a projekteket, amelyek feltehetőleg az olvasóik érdeklődési körébe tartoznak. A támogatás fejében olcsóbban, kedvezőbb feltételekkel jutnak az elkészült kiadványhoz – sőt, ha elég nagy összeg gyűlik össze egy-egy könyv megírásához/kiadásához, akkor az open access verzióban jut el hozzájuk! A Knowledge Unlatched csupán egy kis “sikerdíjat” vesz le az összekalapolt büdzséből, hogy fenn tudják tartani a működést (végül is ők bonyolítják a teljes tranzakciót, ők hozzák össze a kiadókat a könyvtárakkal, stb.). A kiadó tehát elkötelezettje lesz a könyvtárakkal való megállapodásnak, amitől függetlenül persze kínálhat több verziót több áron az elkészülő kötetből a nagyközönségnek – viszont a könyvtár jóval kedvezőbb modellben juthat hozzá a kívánt portékához. Nekem eddig elkerülte a figyelmemet, de tény, hogy éppen Magyarországon mutatták be először a modellt, tavaly, az Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association éves gyűlésén: 
3911	Yes	 By  Cory Haik ,  The Washington Post #39;s Executive Producer for Digital News In August 2011, Michele Bachmann held a small rally in the parking lot of a sports bar in Indianola, Iowa with a few dozen people. Over the course of the event, Bachmann, like many politicians, repeatedly misled her audience. The Post’s National Political Editor, Steven Ginsberg, was at the event and detected a problem: no one attending seemed to realize they were being misled. From that moment, the Post set out to try to fix that problem and to give the public the information it needs at the moment it needs it. Our solution is  Truth Teller , which aims to fact check speeches in as close to real time as possible. Truth Teller is a prototype of a news application built by the Post with funding from  Knight Foundation#39;s Prototype Fund . The prototype, built in three months, is a big step toward real-time fact checking. The Post is dedicated to this project because we believe strongly that informing and educating the public is one of the most critical missions we can perform, particularly when it comes to our elected officials -  regardless of their political affiliation . Amid the cacophony of an instant-news culture, identifying the truth is both harder and more important than ever. Facts themselves are increasingly under attack and falsehoods can easily and instantly find their way to a mass audience. In fact, many are designed to. For the prototype, we focused on the coming debate over tax reform, both because of its timing and importance. The tax debate will play out over several months and naturally lends itself to deceit and deception - even moreso than many policy discussions. We hope that our application will help direct the conversation toward the truth as it is happening so that Americans get a fair shot at deciding this critical issue. The  Truth Teller  prototype was built and runs with a combination of several technologies - some new, some very familiar. We#39;ve combined video and audio extraction with a speech-to-text technology to search a database of facts and fact checks. The Post also worked with  Dan Schultz , creator of  Truth Goggles , as he helped consult and shared his knowledge of real-time fact checking. We are effectively taking in video, converting the audio to text, matching that text to our database, and then displaying, in real time, what’s true and what’s false. The key to the project’s success is building an authoritative database - our goal is to identify falsehoods, not create more of them. 
3912	Yes	My new post at Altmetric is guided by the concept of digital opportunity. I take a quick look at some research on the uptake of ICTs and social media in Africa and link to and comment on Altmetric details of two articles on Africa. Continue reading » 
3913	Yes	 The Born Digital Working Group Divides and Conquers -- Maryland Institute for Technology in the Humanities Back in October, we introduced the MITH/UM Libraries Born Digital Working Group (BDWG) with a post about processing the Bill Bly Collection .  Since then we’ve firmed up our goals (“start collecting/working with diverse born digital materials in the libraries”  being a bit nebulous and… huge) and divided ourselves into sub-groups to conquer them. Goals and groups decided upon, we’re going to try to give bi-weekly updates on our work, cross-posted to the MITH and Special Collections blogs. We’ll be cycling through the groups to ensure every area is covered; those areas are: tools, policies/procedures, metadata, and administration. Tools Originally called “Technology/BitCurator/hardware/software/tools,” this subgroup is dedicated to pre-processing work–everything that happens before an acquisition is deposited in the digital repository. The Tools group is led by Jennie Levine Knies and includes Amanda Visconti, Eric Cartier, Matt Kirschenbaum, Porter Olsen and Rachel Donahue. Policy/Procedures Dedicated to developing the many guidelines necessary to implement new digital workflows in the libraries. The Policy/Procedures group is led by Joanne Archer and includes Caitlin Wells, Daniel Mack, Rachel Donahue, Robin Pike, and Trevor Muñoz. Metadata Dedicated to data about data. Specifically, this group will look at everything that’s needed to create a properly-described submission information package (SIP). The Metadata Group is led by Joshua Westgard and includes Eric Cartier,Jennie Levine Knies, and Rachel Donahue. Administration Dedicated to providing the high-level support needed by change agents everywhere. Administration was originally lumped in with Policy/Procedures, but we broke it out to keep things specific and manageable. The Administration group is led by Trevor Muñoz and includes Daniel Mack, Jennie Levine Kniees, Joanne Archer, Matthew Kirschenbaum, and Rachel Donahue. As you read our posts in the future, bear in mind that we’re essentially starting from scratch. We’re unlikely to have anything amazingly groundbreaking to share, but we hope that being transparent about our work might help other organizations undergoing similar changes. 
3914	Yes	 Here’s a fantastic clip of President Kennedy dressing down an Airforce General after a public relations disaster: a Washington Post feature on an Airforce funded maternity suite for Jackie Kennedy, at Otis Airforce Base . The $5000 refurbishment (featuring Jordan Marsh furniture shipped from Boston) was photographed with an Airforce attendant standing at the ready. Unsurprisingly, President Kennedy was fuming. Personal embarrassment aside, if the Airforce could afford this type of expenditure why shouldn’t Congress cut its budget? JFK called the general on July 25, 1963 to inform him that he ‘just sank the Airforce budget,’ and asked if ‘they were crazy up there?’ He concluded: ‘this is obviously a fuck-up.’ 
3915	Yes	A few of us here at Indiana University are exploring options for fostering image-based bibliographic collections. Most of these to date are driven by scholars so they serve very specific research questions, but our Rare Books library could very well benefit from such a platform for documents with broader appeal. Poking around the Omeka forums and the interwebs, I noticed a lot of interest in the Zotero plugin for Omeka, but I am curious to see some examples of Zotero-based collections using Omeka as an end-user delivery system. Using Omeka for discovery of bibliographic collections was discussed in a related post by Susan Hollis Merritt ( http://digitalhumanities.org/answers/topic/most-effective-software-for-building-searchable-digital-bibliographic-database#post-1856) . Please share! Thanks! 
3916	Yes	Using Omeka for discovery of bibliographic collections was discussed in a related post by Susan Hollis Merritt ( http://digitalhumanities.org/answers/topic/most-effective-software-for-building-searchable-digital-bibliographic-database#post-1856) . I'd like to focus on the public display aspect touched upon therein. A few of us here at Indiana University are exploring options for fostering image-based bibliographic collections. Most of these to date are driven by scholars so they serve very specific research questions, but our Rare Books library could very well benefit from such a platform for documents with broader appeal. Poking around the Omeka forums and the interwebs, I noticed a lot of interest in the Zotero plugin for Omeka, but I am curious to see some examples of Zotero-based collections using Omeka as an end-user delivery system. Please share links and any other pertinent info! I am especially curious how well importing file attachments work. Thanks! 
3917	Yes	 beautone : Chicago’s Segregation, illustrated via time-lapse video of the CTA Red Line Continue reading → 
3918	Yes	Let’s say twenty years ago I’d written a science fiction novel about how a futuristic nation has a massive force of flying robot bombs that are programmed with some target parameters and just fly around 24/7 on patrol looking for anything that fits their specifications. Catchy premise, classic bit of robot-overlord dystopianism, one of those things like flying cars that seems amusingly improbable in retrospect… Oh, dear. As with everything else that has come to pass which actually matches the science-fictional imagination, the reality seems so banal and inevitable that we scarcely pause in our everyday lives to consider its implications. The imaginary electronic clipboards and pads in various incarnations of Star Trek were always bristling with fetishistic futurosity, always signalling that a far future had arrived. The iPad I use every day has quickly become about as exotic as a toaster or a ballpoint pen. That doesn’t stop us from having furious debates about the generality of the changes that actually-existing future technology brings. The overall idea and reality of drone warfare is getting some attention, just as the sweeping consequences of digital technology have. But the debate over drones is so far either about the abstractions of moral philosophy (is ok to kill a combatant who has no chance to kill you back?) or it is about a particularized kind of ‘numbers game’ (do drones cause more civilian casualties than we’re being told? more civilian casualities than other kinds of bombing?) A few folks are also beginning to think more carefully about what might happen if there is further automation of drone strikes. All of those conversations matter. But I’m also struck at how much this nascent public conversation doesn’t include the possibility of proliferation and retaliation. In many ways, drones are being treated as the Maxim gun of 21st Century hegemony: something the hegemon has than its subjects have not, and that is being assumed to be a stable part of the overall picture. Among the many explanations for Europe’s sudden assertion of imperial control over most of Africa, the Middle East, and much of Asia in the second half of the 19th Century, the importance of a brief moment of stark asymmetry in the relative ability of polities and elites to mobilize military power has sometimes been pushed aside or downgraded as a self-sufficient explanation, even in ‘technologically determinist’ interpretations. In some measure, that might be because European colonial propaganda, when it addressed military advantages, tended to push that advantage back in time all the way to the 16th Century and treat it as a single manifestation of some overall Western superiority in technology and science. Either that or European colonizers engaged in ridiculous self-puffery about the cultural and organizational superiority of their militaries as opposed to the relative disparity in their armaments. The asymmetry, if it was an important factor, was incredibly brief. At the beginning of the 19th Century, European-controlled militaries had very few systematic advantages in their ability to enforce administrative power and overwhelm local military resistance in Africa, South Asia or the Middle East. They could win single battles or conflicts but not persistently maintain a presence or capacity that could meet any attempt at military resistance. That wasn’t just about their armaments, of course, but also about the financial capacity and political organization of their sponsoring nation-states. For a brief time at the end of the 19th Century, however, industrially-supplied European mass armies with guns and munitions could generally overwhelm non-Western military power (though the latter were often armed with guns as well: William Storey’s new history of gun trading and ownership in southern Africa makes clear how complicated the local picture often was. The thing is, by the end of World War II, that era was comprehensively over, which I think means that asymmetry in force capacity is as much a contributing explanation of decolonization as it is of the spread of 19th Century imperialism. By the 1960s, insurgencies all around the globe were capable of fighting occupying Western armies to a standstill, if not capable of winning in a straight-up battlefield conflict between nation-states. And this has become more and more the case over time. Whatever doctrines or surges or equipment the US or its allies may bring to bear to support an imperial occupation or administration, they can’t succeed in doing more than what Russia did in Chechnya: turning a territory into a wasteland and keeping it under a harsh authoritarian regime. And even the most determined 21st Century hegemon can’t afford to project that kind of military power in more than a few small territories proximate to its national borders, nor can it count on that power to pacify such an opponent for any substantial length of time. Drones clearly seem to some American military planners like the answer to their prayers in such a world, with a lot of other collateral budgetary, technological and political benefits. No pilots exposed to enemy fire (and no human limitations to the speed and mobility of a flying weapons platform). Cheaper by far than modern warplanes. Much easier to keep their operations secret, much more deniability about consequences. Much easier to extend operations into airspace of unfriendly or uncomfortable sovereignities. Nearly impossible to defend against with existing anti-aircraft technology and imposes serious limitations on the freedom of movement of enemy combatants and leaders. Explicit legal sanction from all three branches of the US government for the unilateral use of drones to kill specific targeted individuals, including American citizens, coupled with grudging acquiescence to this practice by most other nations. And as with the Maxim gun, they have none. But that is not going to last. So before we get into the moral philosophy of the general idea, or the morality of their current use, just consider for a moment what is going to happen in a world where: a) Drone warfare is an exceptionally active domain of rapid technological progress due to continuous investment by the United States and other major national and transnational actors. b) Drone warfare is normalized legally and geopolitically as a domain of unrestricted unilateral action by hegemonic or dominant powers (much as the unrestricted use of military force against non-Western societies was briefly something that went almost entirely unquestioned in Europe and the US from about 1870 to 1905). c) The use of drones by the US and other major actors proliferates on a global scale rather than stays confined to a few unusual theaters. With a), investment in technological progress, consider also: a1) that drones with lethal capacity will almost certainly get smaller, cheaper, and harder to detect both as they seek targets and at their points of origination and operation a2) that drones will almost certainly be given more sophisticated systems for automatic navigation, target selection and decision-making over time a3) that integrating the cheap, improvised lethality of explosives used against international forces in Iraq and Afghanistan into drones will become readily possible in the future Think about that for a bit. Now imagine a world where non-state actors of all kinds, at all scales, can with relative ease unleash many automated or semi-automated drones armed with enough explosives to kill a few people or damage local infrastructure, in a way that may be as hard to trace back to the individuals responsible as it is to find someone who made a computer virus or malware today. The moment I lay that scenario out, many people doubtless think, “So that’s going to happen, it’s inevitable”. But I don’t think it is. There are cases in modern world history where national militaries and their civilian administrations have thought twice about the wisdom of proliferating the use of weaponry or technology that gave them enormous short-term advantages after the long-term implications of their generalized use became clear. Chemical and biological weaponry is perhaps the best example, since nuclear weapons may be a special case. National militaries still have this capacity, it’s occasionally been used by repressive regimes against civilian opponents, but sufficient effort has been poured into making their use moral anathema and cause for serious coordinated global action that there are very powerful inhibitions against their use. The appallingly causal and short-sighted use of drones right now by the US military bothers me for all sorts of reasons. But first and foremost, it bothers me because no one in authority is giving any public consideration to the consequences of legitimating their unilateral, undisclosed and unreviewed usage, or the consequences of becoming so reliant upon drone strikes that we vastly accelerate their development. If there is any hope of avoiding a world where small remotely (or automatically) guided explosive drones routinely pose a danger at almost any location or moment, that hope is in this moment, this time, and no other. By the time the AK-47 went into mass production in 1949, it was far too late to ask whether it was a good thing or not for almost any organized group that wanted automatic rifles to have automatic rifles, even if it took some time for the weapon to disseminate at a global scale. 
3919	Yes	 The first Open Economics International Workshop gathered 40 academic economists, data publishers and funders of economics research, researchers and practitioners to a two-day event at Emmanuel College in Cambridge, UK. The aim of the workshop was to build an understanding around the value of open data and open tools for the Economics profession and the obstacles to opening up information, as well as the role of greater openness of the academy. This event was organised by the Open Knowledge Foundation and the Centre for Intellectual Property and Information Law and was supported by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation . Audio and slides are available at the event’s webpage . Setting the Scene The Setting the Scene session was about giving a bit of context to “Open Economics” in the knowledge society, seeing also examples from outside of the discipline and discussing reproducible research. Rufus Pollock (Open Knowledge Foundation) emphasised that there is necessary change and substantial potential for economics: 1) open “core” economic data outside the academy, 2) open as default for data in the academy, 3) a real growth in citizen economics and outside participation. Daniel Goroff (Alfred P. Sloan Foundation) drew attention to the work of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in emphasising the importance of knowledge and its use for making decisions and data and knowledge as a non-rival, non-excludable public good. Tim Hubbard (Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute) spoke about the potential of large-scale data collection around individuals for improving healthcare and how centralised global repositories work in the field of bioinformatics. Victoria Stodden (Columbia University / RunMyCode) stressed the importance of reproducibility for economic research and as an essential part of scientific methodology and presented the RunMyCode project. Open Data in Economics The Open Data in Economics session was chaired by Christian Zimmermann (Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis / RePEc) and was about several projects and ideas from various institutions. The session examined examples of open data in Economics and sought to discover whether these examples are sustainable and can be implemented in other contexts: whether the right incentives exist. Paul David (Stanford University / SIEPR) characterised the open science system as a system which is better than any other in the rapid accumulation of reliable knowledge, whereas the proprietary systems are very good in extracting the rent from the existing knowledge. A balance between these two systems should be established so that they can work within the same organisational system since separately they are distinctly suboptimal. Johannes Kiess (World Bank) underlined that having the data available is often not enough: “It is really important to teach people how to understand these datasets: data journalists, NGOs, citizens, coders, etc.”. The World Bank has implemented projects to incentivise the use of the data and is helping countries to open up their data. For economists, he mentioned, having a valuable dataset to publish on is an important asset, there are therefore not sufficient incentives for sharing. Eustáquio J. Reis (Institute of Applied Economic Research – Ipea) related his experience on establishing the Ipea statistical database and other projects for historical data series and data digitalisation in Brazil. He shared that the culture of the economics community is not a culture of collaboration where people willingly share or support and encourage data curation. Sven Vlaeminck (ZBW – Leibniz Information Centre for Economics) spoke about the EDaWaX project which conducted a study of the data-availability of economics journals and will establish publication-related data archive for an economics journal in Germany. Legal, Cultural and other Barriers to Information Sharing in Economics The session presented different impediments to the disclosure of data in economics from the perspective of two lawyers and two economists. Lionel Bently (University of Cambridge / CIPIL) drew attention to the fact that there is a whole range of different legal mechanism which operate to restrict the dissemination of information, yet on the other hand there is also a range of mechanism which help to make information available. Lionel questioned whether the open data standard would be always the optimal way to produce high quality economic research or whether there is also a place for modulated/intermediate positions where data is available only on conditions, or only in certain part or for certain forms of use. Mireille van Eechoud (Institute for Information Law) described the EU Public Sector Information Directive – the most generic document related to open government data and progress made for opening up information published by the government. Mireille also pointed out that legal norms have only limited value if you don’t have the internalised, cultural attitudes and structures in place that really make more access to information work. David Newbery (University of Cambridge) presented an example from the electricity markets and insisted that for a good supply of data, informed demand is needed, coming from regulators who are charged to monitor markets, detect abuse, uphold fair competition and defend consumers. John Rust (Georgetown University) said that the government is an important provider of data which is otherwise too costly to collect, yet a number of issues exist including confidentiality, excessive bureaucratic caution and the public finance crisis. There are a lot of opportunities for research also in the private sector where some part of the data can be made available (redacting confidential information) and the public non-profit sector also can have a tremendous role as force to organise markets for the better, set standards and focus of targeted domains. Current Data Deposits and Releases – Mandating Open Data? The session was chaired by Daniel Goroff (Alfred P. Sloan Foundation) and brought together funders and publishers to discuss their role in requiring data from economic research to be publicly available and the importance of dissemination for publishing. Albert Bravo-Biosca (NESTA) emphasised that mandating open data begins much earlier in the process where funders can encourage the collection of particular data by the government which is the basis for research and can also act as an intermediary for the release of open data by the private sector. Open data is interesting but it is even more interesting when it is appropriately linked and combined with other data and the there is a value in examples and case studies for demonstrating benefits. There should be however caution as opening up some data might result in less data being collected. Toby Green (OECD Publishing) made a point of the different between posting and publishing, where making content available does not always mean that it would be accessible, discoverable, usable and understandable. In his view, the challenge is to build up an audience by putting content where people would find it, which is very costly as proper dissemination is expensive. Nancy Lutz (National Science Foundation) explained the scope and workings of the NSF and the data management plans required from all economists who are applying for funding. Creating and maintaining data infrastructure and compliance with the data management policy might eventually mean that there would be less funding for other economic research. Trends of Greater Participation and Growing Horizons in Economics Chris Taggart (OpenCorporates) chaired the session which introduced different ways of participating and using data, different audiences and contributors. He stressed that data is being collected in new ways and by different communities, that access to data can be an enormous privilege and can generate data gravities with very unequal access and power to make use of and to generate more data and sometimes analysis is being done in new and unexpected ways and by unexpected contributors. Michael McDonald (George Mason University) related how the highly politicised process of drawing up district lines in the U.S. (also called Gerrymandering) could be done in a much more transparent way through an open-source re-districting process with meaningful participation allowing for an open conversation about public policy. Michael also underlined the importance of common data formats and told a cautionary tale about a group of academics misusing open data with a political agenda to encourage a storyline that a candidate would win a particular state. Hans-Peter Brunner (Asian Development Bank) shared a vision about how open data and open analysis can aid in decision-making about investments in infrastructure, connectivity and policy. Simulated models about investments can demonstrate different scenarios according to investment priorities and crowd-sourced ideas. Hans-Peter asked for feedback and input on how to make data and code available. Perry Walker (new economics foundation) spoke about the conversation and that a good conversation has to be designed as it usually doesn’t happen by accident. Rufus Pollock (Open Knowledge Foundation) concluded with examples about citizen economics and the growth of contributions from the wider public, particularly through volunteering computing and volunteer thinking as a way of getting engaged in research. During two sessions, the workshop participants also worked on Statement on the Open Economics principles will be revised with further input from the community and will be made public on the second Open Economics workshop taking place on 11-12 June in Cambridge, MA. 
3920	Yes	 The editor of The Public Domain Review , Adam Green, recently gave a feature-length interview to Vice magazine Italy. You can find the original in Italian here , and an English version below! While there is a wealth of copyright-free material available online, The Public Domain Review is carving out a niche as strongly curated website with a strong editorial line. How did the PDR begin? Myself and The Public Domain Review’s other co-founder, Jonathan Gray, have long been into digging around in the these huge online archives of digitised material – places like the Internet Archive and Wikimedia Commons – mostly to find things with which to make collages. We started a little blog called Pingere to share some of the more unusual and compelling things that we stumbled across. Jonathan suggested that we turned this into a bigger project aiming to celebrate and showcase the wonderfulness of this public domain material that was out there. We took the idea to the Open Knowledge Foundation, a non-profit which promotes open access to knowledge in a variety of fields, and they helped us to secure some initial seed funding for the project. And so the Public Domain Review was born. What was the first article you posted? We initially focused on things which were just coming into the public domain that year. In many countries works enter the public domain 70 years after the death of the author or artist – although there are lots of weird rules and exceptions (often unnecessarily complicated!). Anyway, 2011 saw the works of Nathaniel West enter the public domain, including his most famous book Day of the Locusts . The first article was about that, and West’s relationship with Hollywood, written by Marion Meade who’d recently published a book on the subject. What criteria do you use to choose stuff for the Review? As the name suggests, all our content is in the ‘public domain’, so that is the first criterion. We try to focus on works that are in the public domain in most countries, which isn’t as easy as it sounds as every country has different rules. Generally it means stuff created by people who passed away before the early 1940s. The second criterion is that there are no restrictions on the reuse of the digital copies of the public domain material. What kind of restrictions? Well, some countries say that in order to qualify for copyright digital reproductions have to demonstrate some minimal degree of originality, and others say that there just needs to be demonstrable investment in the digitisation (the so-called “sweat of the brow” doctrine). Many big players in the world of digitisation – like Google, Microsoft, the Bridgeman Art Library, and national institutions – argue that they own rights in their digital reproductions of works that have entered the public domain, perhaps so they can sell or restrict access to them later down the line. We showcase material from institutions who have already decided to openly license their digitisations. We are also working behind the scenes to encourage more institutions to do the same and see free and open access to their holdings as part of their public mission. But you have a strong aesthetic line as well, don’t you? Yes of course, the material has to be interesting! We tend to go for stuff which is less well known, so rather than put up all the works of Charles Dickens (as great as they are) we’ll go instead for something toward the more unorthodox end of the cultural spectrum, e.g. a personal oracle book belonging to Napoleon, or a 19th century attempt to mathematically model human consciousness through geometric forms. I guess a sort of alternative history to the mainstream narrative, an attempt to showcase just some of the excellence and strangeness of human ideas and activity which exist ‘inbetween’ these bigger events and works about which the narrative of history is normally woven. Is there anything you wouldn’t publish? I guess there is some material which is perhaps a little too controversial for the virtuous pages of the PDR – such as the racier work of Thomas Rowlandson or some of the less family friendly works of the 16th century Italian printmaker Agostino Carracci. Our most risque thing to date is probably a collection of some of Eadweard Muybridge’s ‘animal locomotion’ portfolio, which included a spot of naked tennis. It seems that authors are becoming less and less important, publishers are facing extinction, and yet the potential for users of content is ever-expanding. What do you think about the future of publishing? It is certainly true that things are radically changing in the publishing world. Before the advent of digital technologies, publishers were essentially gatekeepers of what words were seen in the public sphere. You saw words in books and newspapers and – for many people – that was pretty much it. What you saw was the result of decisions made by a handful of people. But now this has changed. People don’t need publishing contracts to get their words seen. Words, pictures and audiovisual material can be shared and spread at virtually no cost with just a few clicks. But people still do want to read words in books. And they turn to publishers – through bookshops, the media, etc – to find new things to read. While there is DIY print-on-demand publishing, it is hard to compete with the PR and promotion of professional publishers. I don’t think publishers will become extinct. No doubt they will adapt to new markets in search for profits. Is the internet causing works to become more detached from their authors? Is there a way in which this could be a good thing? With the rise of digital technologies it is, no doubt, much easier for this detachment to happen. Words leave the confines of books and articles, get copied and pasted into blogs, websites and social media, are shared through illegal downloads, etc, perhaps losing proper attribution along the way. But in a way none of this is new. It is just a more accelerated version of what has happened for hundreds of years. If anything it is probably better for authors now than it was with the past – as the internet also enables people to try to check where things come from, their pedigree and provenance. In the 17th century, before there was a proper copyright law, it was common for whole books to be “stolen”, given a new title and cover, and be sold under a new author’s name. Could this be a good thing? Well, one could argue that reuse and reworking are an essential part of the creative process. We can find brilliant examples of literary pastiche and collaging techniques in the works of writers like W.G. Sebald, where you are not sure whether he’s speaking with his own words or that of another writer (whose work he is discussing). In Sebald’s case it gives the whole piece a fluency and unity, a sense that its one voice, of humanity or history speaking. But of course Sebald’s work is protected by copyright held by his publishers or his literary estate. One wonders whether one could use his works in the same way and get away with it. So is copyright a big negative? No not at all – from the perspective of artists/writers copyrighting their work, in general it makes complete sense to me. This is not just about money but also about artistic control over how a work is delivered. Looking back to the past before copyright – it wasn’t just about royalties but also about reputation, about preventing or discouraging mischievous or sloppy reuse. While copyright is far from perfect – and often pretty flawed – it still offers creators a basic level of protection for the things that they have created. As an author or artist if you want something more flexible than your standard copyright license then you can combine it with things like Creative Commons licenses to say how you want others to be able to use your works. The question of how long (or whether!) works should be copyrighted after the death of creators is an entirely different question. I think copyright laws and international agreements are currently massively skewed in favour of big publishers and record companies (often supported by well heeled lobbyist groups purporting to serve the neglected interests of famous authors and aging rock stars), and do not take sufficient account of the public domain as a positive social good: a cultural commons, free for everyone. Have you ever had problems with a copyright claim from an author? Well almost all of the public domain material we feature is by people who are long dead, so we haven’t (thank god!) had any direct complaints from them. We did get one take down notice on Gurideff’s Harmonium Recordings. The law can get very complex, particularly around films and sound recordings. I am not sure they were right, but we took it down all the same. What are your plans for the future? As well as expansion of the site with exciting new features we are also planning to break out from the internet into the real world of objects! We’re planning to produce some beautiful printed volumes with collections of images and texts curated around certain themes. We’ve wanted to do this for a while, and hopefully we’ll have time (and funds!) to finally do this next year. You can sign up to The Public Domain Review’s wonderful newsletter here 
3921	Yes	News from VuFind . The latest version of the VuFind Open Source discovery software has just been released. This will be the final release in the 1.x series, with a 2.0 release planned for later in the year. The new release includes several significant enhancements: Support for hierarchical collections of records, allowing better integration of archival materials and digital repositories. Built-in support for running without an Integrated Library System, making VuFind more convenient for non-library uses and offering smarter behavior during temporary ILS outages. The ability to provide custom recommendations to the user when no search results are found. An improved and expanded mobile interface. New index fields allowing VuFind to be used as an article index. Optional Clickatell support for text messaging. Several new interface translations: Basque, Catalan, Czech and Russian. Additionally, several bug fixes and minor improvements have been incorporated. 
3922	Yes	 The deadline for nominations in the annual BioMed Central Open Data Awards is on January 31st . Get your votes in now! It’s been a big year for open science in general, and for BioMed Central in particular. We’ve been hard at work promoting the value of data-sharing, developing standards to make it more attractive to researchers, and offering tools to make open publishing even easier. Recognising the importance of citation and reuse tracking in motivating researchers to publish openly, we’ve been promoting standards for data-citation including data DOIs (Digital Object Identifiers) as link-able URLs. Through our technology partnership with LabArchives , all our authors can now get 100Mb of free storage and the ability to assign DOIs to their datasets, and thereby create permanent data citations. This standard is exemplified by various datasets deposited in GigaDB , the database underpinning BioMed Central and BGI’s revolutionary “big data” journal GigaScience , which published its first articles in July 2012. Critically, GigaDB uses the Creative Commons CC0 waiver for published datasets making data open in compliance with Open Knowledge Foundation principles. We’ve been pushing open licensing since 2010 , but in September 2012 we launched a formal public consultation on changing the copyright system in science publishing to better support open data. Look out for the full, public report on the outcomes in early 2013. The Open Data Award But the Open Data Award is a celebration of the work of our authors . Authors who have gone the extra mile to make their science reproducible; their analyses re-computable; and so, fundamentally, their data as open as possible. We look for scientists who have published in BioMed Central journals and have demonstrated leadership in the sharing, standardization, publication, or re-use of biomedical research data. Last year’s winner exemplified the award’s criteria superbly. The International Stroke Trial group, led by Peter Sandercock published the anonymised 19,000 individual patient data from one the largest trials in acute stroke ever conducted. This kind of transparency is sadly still uncommon in this field, and the data are already being used by at least two other groups since its release. I’m hoping we will unearth an equally important example of “data sharing done well” from our 2012 publications. As in previous years the authors of Panton Principles – Peter Murray-Rust, John Wilbanks, Rufus Pollock and Cameron Neylon – will be assisting with the judging process, along with Earl Buetler, CEO of LabArchives. With less than a week to go before we begin the judging process, please nominate soon! 
3923	Yes	 
3924	Yes	 
3925	Yes	 
3926	Yes	As we embark on the next semester of the Praxis Program we have begun to think about our “roles” in the Prism project.  This has led to a surprising rush of gender feelings.  Parts of these feelings feel too second-wave feministy to be appropriate in this day and age, but regardless I find myself frustrated with myself for fitting into certain gendered tropes.  We have six people in our Praxis cohort, three are men and three are women and two of these men have previous experience in the coding/programming world.  Thus as we assign jobs I find myself gravitating towards design, project management, outreach and community engagement.  While the rest of the positions have yet to be assigned, its hard not to feel a division of labor emerging that is highly gendered. What makes this all the more frustrating is that my hesitation to take on “coding” responsibilities grows out of the realization last semester that I am not that interested in learning programming languages.  I’m happy that I have learned HTML/CSS and have a basic understanding of Ruby on Rails, my computer proficiency has expanded a thousand fold, and I will be certainly implementing digital tools in my dissertation.  However, I may not necessarily want to do the backend work necessary to make those tools manifest.  It is hard to let go of my deeply feminist goal of mastering coding languages and democratizing this knowledge for underrepresented groups in the digital world (women, people of color, queer people etc.).  This is not to say I have somehow given up on learning Ruby or other aspects of programming, but it is clear to me that I do not have the passion or drive to ever truly master these tools. An additional challenge that my gender has presented me with is my frustration at not knowing and needing to constantly seek help.  Even though the Scholars Lab staff could not be more amazing, kind, and understanding as they explain what is likely obvious to them, I feel that my constant confusion and steep learning curve plays into gendered assumptions about women and the digital world. Unfortunately right now I have more questions than I do answers about gender in the digital humanities.  How do we make digital humanities spaces that are truly feminist and anti-racist that recognize the historical and structural inequalities each person brings to the space?  How can we as people from underrepresented groups work through feelings of insecurity or “out of placeness” in the digital world?  How do we implement progressive pedagogical approaches to the digital humanities that resist teacher/student dynamics that disempower students? I know that there are already groups doing this work and I am excited to spend more time engaging with their pedagogical approach (groups like BlackGirlsCode and TransformDH ).  In the meantime I’m curious what other people think… 
3927	Yes	Virgin America Partners Up with MOGL’s Gamified Loyalty Platform Loyalty is changing and MOGL’s gamified rewards platform is really shining through. MOGL is a gamified loyalty platform that rewards users for dining out at restaurants by giving 10% cash back on select restaurants and donating a meal to Feed America for every $20 spent. Their new partnership with Virgin America will allow MOGL to power Virgin’s new Elevate frequent fliers dining program. Members of Virgin Elevate can now have their 10% cash back on MOGL converted into Elevate points to be redeemed for for miles, upgrades, food, and other Virgin services. As a bonus promotion, MOGL and Virgin will be doubling earned elevate points for each dollar spent on the MOGL platform. Currently, MOGL has partnerships with over 2,000 restaurants in California and have reported MOGL users have earned about $2 million in rewards since it started in 2011. When asked about the new partnership, MOGL founder John Carder stated: “Virgin is a great brand and a great way to kick off our partnerships, but we’ll have many more of these partnerships with brands in the future…this is just the beginning.” This new partnership marks the beginning of a significant change in how loyalty will work, especially with new reports about the declining state of traditional loyalty and even Delta’s failing SkyMiles program . MOGL and Virgin are doing everything right to approach loyalty in a way that is sustainable and exciting for the future. The social competition mechanics, altruistic benefits, small cash prizes, a single program and the ability to  choose how you want your rewards is how a loyalty program needs to be now and it unsurprisingly, aligns very much with effective gamification design. via TechCrunch --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Modern Loyalty Done Right: MOGL Joins Virgin America for More Loyalty Rewards appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3928	Yes	I blogged three weeks ago about the Library of Congress ingesting the Twitter feed , noting that the tweets were ending up on tape. It is over 130TB and growing 190GB/day. The Library is still trying to work out how to provide access to this collection; for example they cannot afford the infrastructure that would allow readers to perform keyword searches. This leaves the 400-odd researchers who have already expressed a need for access to the collection stymied. The British Library is also running into problems providing access to large collections, although not as large as Twitter. They are reduced to delivering 30TB NAS boxes to researchers, the same approach as Amazon and other services have taken to moving large amounts of data. I mentioned this problem in passing in my earlier post, but I have come to understand that this observation has major implications for the future of digital preservation. Follow me below the fold as I discuss them. A few years ago I reviewed the research on the costs of digital preservation and concluded that, broadly speaking, the breakdown was half to ingest, one third to preservation, and one sixth to access. The relatively small proportion devoted to access was in line with studies of access patterns to preserved data, such as that by my co-author Ian Adams at UCSC , which showed that readers accessed them infrequently. The bulk of the accesses were for integrity checks. It would be interesting to know what each of the 400 researchers want to do with the Twitter collection. Do they really want to do Google-style keyword searches, each of which will probably return a few million tweets for further analysis? My guess is that what they really want to do is to run a data-mining process over the entire collection . If the only access were via keyword search, data-mining would have to proceed via a keyword search that returns a large sample, then transferring the large sample over the network from the library to the researcher's computer to run the rest of the analysis. This would be inefficient, slow and expensive in bandwidth. In the future, with collections much larger than those whose access patterns have been studied in the past, the access researchers want is likely to be quite different from the patterns we have seen so far. Instead of infrequent access to a small fraction of the collection, we will see infrequent access to much of the collection. These accesses will be more similar those for integrity checks, which read the entire collection, than to traditional reader access. But instead of happening gradually over a period of many months, they will need to be completed relatively quickly. Thus the proportion of the future cost of preservation due to access will be much larger than one sixth. This isn't the only implication of the change in access patterns. Each data-mining type access will generate a spike in demand for computing resources. Bandwidth considerations will require that these resources be located close to the collection. Provisioning the computing resources at the archive, in the Twitter case at the Library of Congress, will result in them being under-used because there won't be enough demand from researchers to keep them busy 24/7. The Library would have to pay not merely for keeping the Twitter archive on hard drives, which they can't afford, but also a substantial compute farm, which they can't afford and would stand idle much of the time. This pattern of demand for compute resources, being spiky, is ideal for cloud computing services. It might well be that if they invested in providing keyword search over the Twitter collection the Library would not merely be failing to provide the access researchers want, but also implementing the access they would provide uneconomically. Suppose instead that in addition to keeping the two archive copies on tape, the Library kept one copy in S3's Reduced Redundancy Storage simply to enable researchers to access it. Right now it would be costing $7692/mo. Each month this would increase by $319. So a year would cost $115,272. Scholars wanting to access the collection would have to pay for their own computing resources at Amazon , and the per-request charges ; because the data transfers would be internal to Amazon there would not be bandwidth charges. The storage charges could be borne by the library or charged back to the researchers. If they were charged back, the 400 outstanding requests would each need to pay about $300 for a year's access to the collection, not an unreasonable charge. If this idea turned out to be a failure it could be terminated with no further cost, the collection would still be safe on tape. In the short term, using cloud storage for an access copy of large, popular collections may be a cost-effective approach. If I'm right about the likely future pattern of accesses to large preserved collections, it reinforces a message Ian Adams and Ethan Miller of UCSC and I wrote about back in 2011 . Fascinating work at Carnegie-Mellon demonstrated that by combining very low-power CPUs with modest amounts of flash storage it was possible to build a network of much larger numbers of much smaller nodes that could process key-value searches as fast as existing hard-disk-based networks at 2 orders of magnitude less power. They called this concept FAWN, for Fast Array of Wimpy Nodes . By analogy, we proposed DAWN, for Durable Array of Wimpy Nodes . Using the same approach of combining low-power CPUs with modest amounts of flash into cheap, durable and self-healing nodes, and using large numbers of them, we showed that it was possible to reduce running costs enough to more than justify the extra cost of storing data in flash as opposed to hard disk. A point that we did not stress enough is that DAWN provides much higher bandwidth between the storage medium and the compute resource than conventional hard-disk storage architectures such as Amazon's, in which a powerful, many-core CPU is separated from a large number of disk drives by bridge chips, I/O controllers and in many cases networks. Although the CPU in a DAWN node is wimpy, it is directly connected to the flash chips holding the data. As flash is replaced by future solid-state technologies, with RAM-like interfaces, this advantage will increase. Data-mining accesses are typically just the sort of query that can be parallelized effectively in a DAWN network. Thus the DAWN approach would eliminate the need for a separate access copy in cloud storage. It could support the data-mining directly, eliminating a significant cost. One aspect of this model that will bear close attention is the security aspects of allowing researcher's code to access the collection directly. The cloud model provides read-only access to applications not running as the owner of the collection, and in any case these applications are accessing a disposable access-only copy. But in the DAWN case it would be accessing one replica of the permanent collection. The necessary separation would have to be provided by sandbox software in each node. 
3929	Yes	 You’ve probably been there. A new job, a new project team, a new client. A great first meeting. Everyone is invited to talk, to listen, to contribute. Everyone is assured that their voices will be heard, their concerns addressed, their ideas taken seriously. Fast forward a week, a month, a year. One by one, those voices have been silenced, those concerns dismissed, those ideas undermined. What remains are the ideas and concerns of the person who (it has now become clear) is in charge. To do their jobs effectively, members of a project team need to know who the decision maker is. We all like democracy, those of us in education and cultural heritage especially so. If it’s truly a democracy, great. But if it’s a dictatorship, people would rather know from the outset than be led down a rhetorical primrose path of “democracy,” “consensus,” and “collaboration” only to have the rug pulled out from under them when the decision maker finally decides to assert his or her will. If you are the decision maker, let us know. Anything less treats team members like children and wastes everybody’s time. What’s worse, it makes for shortsighted, haphazard, second-rate work product. 
3930	Yes	 The following is a guest post by Abbie Grotke, Library of Congress Web Archiving Team Lead While organizations have been archiving the web since the mid-1990s , it’s only in the last few years that there’s been a surge in web archivists speaking out about issues they encounter, uses of archives, and innovations in tools and technologies. Readers interested in web archiving may have noticed that my colleagues and I blog about it here whenever we get the chance : information about our Library of Congress Web Archives , collaborations we’re involved in, technical issues related to archiving, and more.  Not only are our fellow members of the International Internet Preservation Consortium blogging more these days about their work, but others in the community as well. For those who might be interested in learning more about what other organizations are doing, I thought I’d do a roundup of blogs we’re reading. Most are in English, though as an indication of the international reach of this activity, some are not. Australia’s Web Archives : National Library of Australia’s PANDORA Archive curators blog about the content of the archive and sharing experiences of web archivists at the NLA and its partner organizations. California Digital Library : CDL has a blog that includes posts related to their web archiving program and the Web Archiving Services (WAS). Common Crawl : While not web archivists per se, Common Crawl’s mission is to “build and maintain an open crawl of the web that can be accessed and analyzed by everyone,” members of our community are interested in the research use and potential of the common crawl dataset. Internet Archive Blogs : Internet Archive’s blog covers a variety of topics about the IA. Posts related to web archiving can be found under Announcements, Archive-IT, and Wayback Machine categories. Internet Memory Foundation Blogs : A non-profit institution actively supporting the preservation of the Internet, the Internet Memory Foundation offers up two blogs (Memoranda Blog and Synapse Blog), both of interest to web archivists, researchers and technologists working in this space. National Archives (UK)  blog :  This blog hosts a variety of topics from the UK National Archives; posts specifically relating to Web Archiving are at this link. National Library of New Zealand : The library’s blog has had a few posts about their web archive activities: Websites Come, Websites Go and This site is accessible using TELNET! National Library of Spain (in Spanish): A mixed-content blog dealing a variety of topics related to the institution. They recently began to promote their web archive and have a few posts explaining the nature of their web archive, its founding and contents, and expounding on the hypothetical advent of a Digital Dark Age. Portuguese Web Archive – News : In Portuguese and English, this news feed provides the latest news from the Portuguese Web Archive. Smithsonian Archives Bigger Picture Blog : Has an occasional post about the Smithsonian’s web archiving activities. A search of the blog for “web archiving” will get you to them. UK Web Archive blog : Announcements and information about the UK Web Archive. Topics include research use of their archives, collection development and crowdsourcing, technical updates, and so forth. WebArchiv : The Czech web archiving project maintains this blog (in Czech). They discuss what, how and why they web archive, among other topics. Web Science and Digital Libraries Research Group at Old Dominion University : This blog has a variety of research and teaching updates from Old Dominion University. They often include postings about Web Archiving. I may have missed other blogs that you may be reading or contributing to. Please post in the comments to add to this list! 
3931	Yes	 I have always loved cutaway diagrams. (I suppose I was an early enthusiast of visualizations.) As a kid, I would make drawings of both the external appearance of a machine or building as well as the occasional internal plan or profile. Cutaways like this fascinated me. The artists who created them were like magicians to [...]
3932	Yes	Minecraft is Teaching Urban Engineering Concepts Minecraft is emerging as one of the most pleasant surprises in game-based learning. Already existing in some schools as a social tool and Roman history lesson , the Swedish-developed block building game has found its way into the mandatory learning curriculum for one particular school in Stockholm. The Viktor Rydberg school in Stockholm has made Minecraft a part of the compulsory learning curriculum for about 180 students. This new curriculum addition stems from an  internnational school competition called  Future City  that aims to teach students more about urban engineering. Students taking the Minecraft class are learning how to create virtual worlds, powered by electricity grids, water supply networks, and other projects related to urban planning and infrastructure. Monica Ekman, one of the teachers at Viktor Rydberg. stated: “They learn about city planning, environmental issues, getting things done, and even how to plan for the future,” Minecraft’s sandbox nature and endlessly customizable features enable it to not only be a tool but to be an entire interactive environment for students to learn in. Its not just any game, especially when its customized to specific lesson plans. Ekman says:“The boys knew a lot about it before we even started, but the girls were happy to create and build something too – it’s not any different from arts or woodcraft ,” Gamification principles work so well in the modern era because it appeals to the current generation of people in the same way the most modern entertainment engages them and could even teach concepts traditional teaching could not, like digital citizenship and civic behavior . To see how you can begin incorporating Minecraft into your school curriculum, check out MinecraftEdu for some teacher resources and a discounted version of the popular game. via TheLocal.SE --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Minecraft Added to Mandatory Curriculum in Swedish School appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3933	Yes	 
3934	Yes	 
3935	Yes	I have said on several occasions that test-writing might eventually become a good way for new developers to contribute to the VuFind project. By increasing our test coverage (and thus future code stability), new tests are a valuable contribution to the software… and the act of studying all the code paths in order to write a test is a good way to learn how things work. Of course, the reality of the situation is not so straightforward. There is still a lot of code in VuFind that is inherently hard to test, usually due to complex dependencies. At this point in time, the process of writing tests is often also the process of refactoring code to reduce coupling, which in turn makes it more testable — and this often requires a deeper understanding of the system than a newcomer is likely to have. (See my previous blog post for an example of the sort of refactoring I mean). So testing isn’t always easy…  but still, it can sometimes be straightforward.  Here’s a relatively simple example to demonstrate some of the principles. Getting Set Up This post assumes you have a clean copy of VuFind 2 checked out somewhere separate from your production instance, and that you have the necessary tools (PHPUnit, Phing, etc.) installed.  More background on the setup can be found in the VuFind wiki . What We Are Testing For this example, we are testing VuFind’s Cart view helper (\VuFind\View\Helper\Root\Cart).  This is a very trivial piece of glue code whose purpose is to make VuFind’s cart object (which keeps track of user selections in the optional “book bag” feature) available for use in view scripts.  You don’t really gain much by writing a test for this class — it is unlikely to change much and it contains no complex logic — but since it is so simple, it’s a good candidate for this tutorial.  We can get to 100% coverage very quickly. You can view the full code of the view helper in our Git repository . There are only two methods: the constructor (which takes a \VuFind\Cart object as a mandatory parameter) and __invoke (a PHP magic method which returns the Cart object when the helper is invoked as if it were a function). Getting Started By convention, unit tests (i.e. all tests that exercise VuFind functionality without relying on an active test instance) reside in module/VuFind/tests/unit-tests/src.  Within this directory, test classes are arranged and namespaced to correspond with the code that they test. This means that we’re going to create a module/VuFind/tests/unit-tests/src/View/Helper/Root/CartTest.php, living in the VuFind\Test\View\Helper\Root namespace. All PHPUnit test cases must be subclasses of the \PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase class.  VuFind includes some base test classes with additional convenience methods (see the VuFindTest namespace), but this particular test is simple enough that we can simply extend the default base class: class CartTest extends \PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase Writing the Test One of the keys to writing an effective test is to avoid doing any work that is not related to the task at hand.  You don’t want your test to fail because of a problem in a different area of the code — this will make bugs harder to locate when something breaks. We are trying to test something very simple here — essentially we want to be sure that when we put a cart object into the view helper’s constructor, we get the same object out when we invoke the helper. This is where the “don’t do unrelated work” rule comes in.  We could construct a real \VuFind\Cart object for testing purposes, but then if there was a bug in the \VuFind\Cart constructor, that might cause our test to fail, even though that has nothing at all to do with our view helper.  Fortunately, we don’t have to construct a real \VuFind\Cart object, thanks to PHPUnit’s mock object feature. With mock objects, we can create objects that serve as placeholders for real classes in our code.  They accept the same method calls and pass the same instanceof tests as real objects, but they don’t actually do anything — unless we configure them to expect particular incoming data or simulate specific responses under specific circumstances.  These are a very valuable testing tool! In our particular case, we don’t need to do anything fancy with mocks — we just need to call PHPUnit’s built-in $this-gt;getMock() method to construct a fake Cart object. There’s just one small issue.  If you just call: $this-gt;getMock(‘VuFind\Cart’); You will get an error.  \VuFind\Cart’s constructor expects a \VuFind\Record\Loader object, and we have to satisfy this dependency even when building a mock.  Fortunately, the third parameter of getMock() accepts constructor parameters for the new mock object, and nothing stops us from creating a mock \VuFind\Record\Loader to satisfy the dependency.  Thus, we end up with: $cart = $this-gt;getMock( ‘VuFind\Cart’, null, array($this-gt;getMock(‘VuFind\Record\Loader’)) ); Now that we have our fake cart, the rest is simple…  Just construct a view helper: $helper = new \VuFind\View\Helper\Root\Cart($cart); …and then test that invoke works by making an assertion that invoking the helper will return the same object that we passed to the constructor: $this-gt;assertEquals($cart, $helper()); Assertions are the most important part of any test — these are what determine whether each test passes or fails.  Never write a test without any assertions!  PHPUnit includes a wide range of assertion methods , allowing you to express many different conditions. Running the Test Now that the code is written (full test class available here ), it’s just a matter of using your VuFind test instance to run it, as described in the wiki . After confirming that a new test passes on my local system, I push it to the Git master and then check the code coverage report in Jenkins after everything rebuilds.  In this case, I’m now seeing 100% coverage for the cart helper. What Next? I hope this has served as a helpful introduction to some fundamentals, but I realize that most real-life testing is significantly more complicated.  I may try to write an article describing a more difficult test in the future if time permits.  In the meantime, if you want to try your hand at test-writing, feel free to send me questions — I’ll be happy to recommend some areas that might be worth looking at, and I can help with any refactoring that may be necessary. 
3936	Yes	Jan 29 2013 Teaser:  How do you engage students with primary sources and their community? Jasmine Alinder shares a success story! 
3937	Yes	  Associate or Full Professor of Digital Media College of Media, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign We seek an outstanding scholar, innovator, and teacher of digital, mobile or emerging media to join our faculty in the College of Media. This is a tenured 9-month academic year joint appointment where interdisciplinary work and collaboration are highly encouraged; ability to teach across two or more units in the College is required. read more 
3938	Yes	 As the Super Bowl draws near, Facebook took a look at football fandom across the country . The National Football League is one of the most popular sports in America with some incredibly devoted fans. At Facebook we have about 35 million account holders in the United States who have Liked a page for one of the 32 teams in the league, representing one of the most comprehensive samples of sports fanship ever collected. Put another way, more than 1 in 10 Americans have declared their support for an NFL team on Facebook. It's a fairly straightforward geographic breakdown based on the most liked team in each county, as shown above. So you can kind of see where rivalries come from. Then when you only look at this year#39;s Super Bowl contenders — the 49ers and the Ravens — you see an expected East and West split. Although it looks like there#39;s a lot of 49ers liking in the Northeast. Or maybe that#39;s more about Baltimore Ravens hate. 
3939	Yes	Just added to the Maia Atlantis feed aggregator : Pedar Foss's quem dixere chaos Christopher Ecclestone#39;s  Piecing Together Diogenes of Oinoanda EES Theban Harbours and Waterscapes Project 
3940	Yes	Just added to the Maia Atlantis feed aggregator : Pedar Foss's quem dixere chaos Christopher Ecclestone#39;s  Piecing Together Diogenes of Oinoanda EES Theban Harbours and Waterscapes Project 
3941	Yes	I have a technical question about metadata vocab reuse, and the best way to do something I’m doing. I’m working on an API for returning a list of scholarly articles. I am trying to do as much as I can with already existing technical metadata devices. In general, I am going to do this as an Atom XML response, with some ‘third party’ XML namespaces in use too for full expression of what I want to express. Using already existing vocabularies, identified by URI. In general, this is working fine — especially using the PRISM vocabulary for some scholarly citation-specific metadata elements. Also some things that were already part of Atom, and may be a bit of DC here or there. I am generally happy with this approach, and plan to stick to it. But there are a few places where I am not sure what to do. In general, there’s a common pattern where I need to express a certain ‘element’ using multiple  vocabularies simultaneously (and/or no vocabulary at all, free text). For instance, let’s take the (semantically vague, yes) concept of type/genre. I have a schema.org type URI that expresses the ‘type’. I can also  express the ‘type’ using the dcterms ‘type’ vocabulary. I could theoretically have a couple more format/type vocabularies I’d like to expose, but let’s stop there as an example. And on top of this, I also  have a free text ‘type’ string (which may or may not be derivable from the controlled vocabs), which I’d like to make available to API consumer too. Any individual item may have some, all, or none of these data associated with it. Now, the dcterms ‘type’ element is capable of holding any or all of these. http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#terms-type “Recommended best practice is to use a controlled vocabulary such as the DCMI Type Vocabulary [DCMITYPE]. To describe the file format, physical medium, or dimensions of the resource, use the Format element.” See, recommended is to use a controlled vocab such as  DCMI Type Vocab, but this makes it clear you can also use the ‘type’ element for another controlled vocab, or no controlled vocab at all. So it’s legal  to simply do something like this: lt;!-- schema.org: --gt;lt;dcterms:typegt;http://schema.org/ScholarlyArticlelt;/dcterms:typegt;lt;!-- dcterms type vocab: --gt;lt;dcterms:typegt;http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Textlt;/dcterms:typegt;lt;!-- free text not from a controlled vocab: --gt;lt;dcterms:typegt;Scholarly Book Reviewlt;/dcterms:typegt; And I’ve been the consumer  of API’s which do something like that: Just throw a grab bag of different things into repeated dcterms:type elements, including URIs representing values from different vocabs, and free text. They figure, hey, it’s legal to use dcterms:type that way according to the docs for the dcterms vocab. And as a consumer of services that do that… I do not want to do it. It is too difficult to work with as a consumer, when you don’t know what the contents of a dcterms:type element might be, from any vocab, or none at all. It kind of ruins the utility of the controlled vocabs in the first place, or requires unreasonably complex logic on the client side. So. Another idea that occurs is just to add some custom attributes to the dcterms:type element. lt;dcterms:type vocab=quot;schema.orgquot;gt;http://schema.org/ScholarlyArticlelt;/dcterms:typegt; lt;dcterms:type vocab=quot;dctermsquot;gt;http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Textlt;/dcterms:typegt;lt;dcterms:typegt;Scholarly Book Reviewlt;/dcterms:typegt; Now at least the client can a lot more easily write logic for “Is there a dcterms value? If so what is it. But I can’t really tell if this is legal or not — attributes are handled kind of inconsistently by various XML validators. Maybe I’d need to namespace the attribute with a custom namespace too: ... xmlns:mine=http://example.org/vocab ...lt;dcterms:type mine:vocab=quot;schema.orgquot;gt;http://schema.org/ScholarlyArticlelt;/dcterms:typegt; But namespaces on attributes are handled very inconsistently and buggily by various standard XML parsing libraries I’ve used, so I don’t really want to do that, it’s going to make things too hard on the client to use namespaced attributes. But I kind of like the elegancy of that ‘add attributes to dcterms:type’ approach. I suppose you could even use full URIs instead of random terms to identify the vocab, for the elegance of it: lt;dcterms:type vocab=quot;http://schema.orgquot;gt;http://schema.org/ScholarlyArticlelt;/dcterms:typegt; lt;dcterms:type vocab=quot;http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-termsquot;gt;http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Textlt;/dcterms:typegt; Another option, especially if that isn’t legal, is to give up dcterms entirely and use only my own custom namespace/vocab for ‘type’ elements: lt;mine:schema-typegt;http://schema.org/ScholarlyArticlelt;/dcterms:typegt; lt;mine:dcterms-typegt;http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/Textlt;/dcterms:typegt;lt;mine:uncontrolled-typegt;Scholarly Book Reviewlt;/dcterms:typegt; Which is kind of ‘inelegant’, but would probably work fine too. Realistically, any consumer of my response is going to be custom written for my response, it can be written to deal with mine:schema-type just as well as dcterms:type with attribute vocab=something. Standardizing here isn’t really necessary at all for primary use cases, although there are a variety of ancillary hypothetical benefits. Or maybe there’s some other solution entirely I’m not thinking of. So, any feedback? What solution makes sense, balancing standards, clarity, parsimony, ease of development, ease of client development, etc.? The ‘type’ example is a good example, but this comes up in some other places too. Another example is for ‘language’, I may have either or both of an ISO code (two letter or three letter variety, such as “en” or “eng”), and an English-language free text description of the language “English”, and want to provide either one or both, unambiguously and easy to consume for the client. Filed under: General 
3942	Yes	Okay, much sooner than expected, I found a good candidate for some more complex unit testing: the VuFind\Cart object that we mocked in the previous post . Preparing for Testing As I mentioned in the previous post, sometimes a bit of work needs to be done before classes can be easily tested. In the case of VuFind\Cart, the class reads and writes cookie values (since this is how VuFind tracks book bag contents).  This is problematic for testing — the class is dependent on web-specific elements in the environment.  The solution is easy enough, though: add some extra abstraction. First, we add the ability to override $_COOKIE through an extra constructor parameter: diff . Next, we create a wrapper function around setcookie(): diff . Now we can test everything easily even if we don’t have real cookies.  This abstraction may also come in handy in the future if Zend Framework offers its own cookie handling utilities, since we have reduced the number of times that VuFind directly utilizes low-level PHP functionality. Writing the Test As of this writing, we don’t have 100% test coverage for VuFind\Cart, but the work-in-progress test demonstrates a few useful techniques.  You might want to open the full code in another tab so you can look at it as you read the notes below. First of all, as discussed in the previous post, VuFind\Cart depends on VuFind\Record\Loader.  I use a mock object to satisfy that dependency.  The mock object is created as a property of the test class — this way, if tests need to make assertions about how VuFind\Cart interacts with VuFind\Record\Loader, these can easily be set up.  (I haven’t done this yet, but it will be necessary to get 100% coverage). I have created a getCart() convenience method which returns a VuFind\Cart mock object.  This routine uses the second parameter of getMock(), which can be used to specify which methods are to be mocked out.  In this case, we are only mocking out the setCookie() wrapper function, since we don’t want our test to actually call PHP’s setcookie() function.  Everything else will be executing real code from the VuFind\Cart class. Most of the actual test cases are simple low-hanging fruit — setting values in the constructor and making sure that the corresponding get methods return them correctly, etc.  It should be fairly self explanatory. The testFullCart() method might be of some interest — this demonstrates using a series of assertions to confirm that an expected sequence of events happens in the appropriate order (in this case, we are making sure that the cart registers as being full at the right point in time). The testCookieWrite() method further demonstrates the power of mock objects.  We want to test that adding an item to the cart writes the correct values to the cookie.  Since we have mocked out the setCookie() method, we can set up expectations that it will be called at particular times with particular values — this allows us to test that a call to $cart-gt;addItem() results in the expected calls to $cart-gt;setCookie(), without actually writing any real cookies.  The PHPUnit syntax can seem a bit weird at first, but it’s not really too bad.  In this example, $this-gt;at(0) and $this-gt;at(1) are being used to set up rules relating to the first and second calls to $cart-gt;setCookie; the -gt;with() portion sets up expectations for particular parameters at each call. Conclusions I hope this further demonstrates how testing can be achieved.  As before, please feel free to ask questions! 
3943	Yes	For some Austin ended when the Armadillo became Threadgill’s South. For others, when S X S W started (or when wristbands began to cost three digits). Or when the warehouse … Continue reading → 
3944	Yes	Nitro now available for IBM Connections Earlier today on Bunchball’s blog, the gamification purveyor has announced the release of Bunchball Nitro for IBM Connections. The new Nitro system is the second iteration of Bunchball on IBM’s Platform meant to encourage widespread adoption and usage of IBM’s social collaboration platform. Some new features include:     Pre-built components: Ready-to-use game mechanics, such as pre-populated onboarding challenges, make it easy to introduce gamification to any IBM Connections community.  Achievement center: Users get a consolidated view of their performance and achievements in all of the communities in which they participate. Infinite gamification program options: The module tracks hundreds of different activities that can be used to structure missions and determine user rewards.  Personalized gamification experiences:  Targeted game mechanics allow you to provide unique experiences to each of your IBM communities. Reporting and analytics: Robust analytics help measure the impact of gamification initiatives while gaining greater insight into communities. A robust administrative console: An easy-to-use interface lets managers configure missions, rewards and communities, as well as measure and track the success of their campaigns.   Nitro for IBM Connections is available today and if you’re at the IBM Connect conference, you can then stop by the Bunchball booth and see a live demo. --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Bunchball Announces Nitro for IBM Connections appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3945	Yes	Working on the Web and need to make a note without leaving the browser? Just open a new tab and type this in to the address bar: Hit Return and voila! — a notepad. I learned this lovely trick from Jose Jesus Perez Aguinaga , Whom God Preserve. 
3946	Yes	"Injections" by Paul Bogaert : This video poem is composed from footage of a “Dream Hospital” newsreel, video clips from a nursing documentary from 1942 (also used in Bogaert’s “ You’re Lying and You Filter ,” Bogaert’s lines of verse (translated from Dutch by John Irons), voice-over recordings, and ambient sounds. Bogaert’s text and editing bring together short looped video clips to create a whole new narrative about an absurd experimental treatment, made particularly surreal by voice-overs of poetic language that barely fits the visual context provided by the video. The short looped clips are edited and to create an illusion of narrative continuity, which makes is more disconcerting, because there is nothing natural in identical bodily movements associated with different speech content, not to mention the repeated injections that the patient is subjected to. I just hope they’re able to free the bird. 
3947	Yes	 Miniature of a monk (Bede?) kissing the feet of St Cuthbert, from the preface to Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert , England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 1v Last year the British Library was pleased to announce the acquisition of the 7th century St Cuthbert Gospel ( Additional MS 89000 ) following the largest public fundraising campaign in our history; see here ,  here and here  for more.  Following the acquisition, the St Cuthbert Gospel was exhibited in our Treasures Gallery alongside another manuscript equally well known to lovers of all things Cuthbertian, Yates Thompson MS 26 . This 12th century manuscript is our latest addition to the Digitised Manuscripts website.   Yates Thompson MS 26  contains a number of texts about England#39;s favourite hermit and bishop, most notably Bede#39;s prose Life of St Cuthbert  ( vita beati Cuthberti ).  But it is probably most famous for its extensive programme of illumination, which documents almost every episode in St Cuthbert#39;s holy life.  Key events depicted include the establishment of Lindisfarne, Cuthbert#39;s ridding the wife of King Ecgfrith#39;s prefect from the demons that beset her, the saint#39;s much-mourned death and subsequent healings at his tomb.  These miniatures are beautifully interspersed with those of more #39;mundane#39; miracles, like a crow bringing lard in atonement for stealing straw and Cuthbert curing a monk of diarrhoea.  Some of our other favourites are below:   Miniature of St Cuthbert praying to God to change the winds beside the river Tyne; miniature of two monks at the monastery of Tynemouth praying for the safety of those blown away in a gale, from Chapter 3 of Bede#39;s prose Life of St Cuthbert , England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , ff. 10v-11r Miniature of the young St Cuthbert kneeling in prayer, interrupted by his horse finding bread and cheese wrapped in linen hidden within a roof, from Chapter 5 of Bede#39;s prose Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 14r   Miniature of (lower left) Cuthbert praying in the sea, and, after he has finished (lower right), otters coming to warm and dry his feet with their breath and fur, while (above), another monk secretly watches the miracle, from Chapter 10 of Bede#39;s prose Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 24r   Miniature of St Cuthbert in a boat at sea, with two other men, from Chapter 11 of Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 26r   Miniature of an eagle bringing St Cuthbert and his companion a fish, which they then share with the eagle, from Chapter 12 of Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 28v   Miniature of St Cuthbert building his hermitage on the island of Farne, with the help of an angel, from Chapter 17 of Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 39r   Miniature of St Cuthbert miraculously discovering a roof beam for his church in the waves of the ocean, from Chapter 21 of Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 45v   Detail of a miniature of St Cuthbert#39;s vision of the soul of a man, who was killed by falling from a tree, being carried to heaven, from Chapter 34 of Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 63v   Miniature of monks at St Cuthbert#39;s hermitage signalling with torches to the monks of Lindisfarne that Cuthbert is dead, from Chapter 40 of Bede#39;s prose  Life of St Cuthbert,  England (Durham), 4th quarter of the 12th century,  Yates Thompson MS 26 , f. 74v   The Life of Cuthbert  is the first British Library manuscript from the Yates Thompson collection to be made available on Digitised Manuscripts , but we can promise you that it will not be the last.  Much more information about the extraordinary collector Henry Yates Thompson and his eponymous collection can be found in our virtual exhibition appropriately titled  Henry Yates Thompson#39;s Illuminated Manuscripts .  Sarah J Biggs Follow us on Twitter:  @blmedieval 
3948	Yes	 With some 40,000 others I have started on this Coursera MOOC on elearning and digital culture. The first unit deals with utopian and dystopian perspectives on technology. Is it really necessary to explain why this is not a worthwhile way to frame this conversation? If we brought someone from where I live in Western New York from 200 or 500 years ago, would they look upon our world as utopian? dystopian? or just hopelessly foreign? I am guessing they would find it both alienating and amazing. Many of the values they would have would simply not make sense in our world. While technologies do not determine culture, they clearly participate in shaping the world (both naturally and culturally if you wish to make those problematic distinctions). It would be naive to view technological development as a problem solving activity: necessity isn't always the mother of invention. Technologies do not lead toward utopia. Sometimes technologies solve problems, but I think they're more likely to make old problems irrelevant. Did the automobile "solve" a problem with transportation? Not exactly. Did the light bulb solve a problem of darkness? I guess, but it would be more accurate to say that electric illumination created a new human space with new human activities. Put in the broadest terms, we no longer have the problems that 18th-century Americans had; we have new ones. When we think of the technologies that are the focus of this MOOC--the social web, mobile devices, etc.--did they solve problems? Were they designed with some utopian impluse? Maybe, partly. Most people don't imagine they are doing evil. We could say that technologies are market-driven, but we wouldn't want to mistakenly believe that the market overdetermines technology. As if the market were some uniform entity. As if the market were not capable of error. In my view it's more accurate to imagine technologies as participating in a discontinuous process whereby new activities are generated, activities among humans and nonhumans. Sometime these activities solve old problems, sometimes they make old problems obsolete without solving them, and sometimes they create new problems or reshape old problems. Given this frame, what seems like a better starting point for me is attempting to identify the functionality of these media technologies and the activities that arise from them. Out of that analysis one might begin to think about their situation in pedagogies. I don't think that's a strictly technical or rational process, though obviously some technical understanding is necessary. That said, it's more about investigating what people do and the myriad capacities that might emerge when humans and nonhumans interact. In other words, I think the utopian/dystopian business is a bit of boondoggle. I realize that we often think of technologies in this way, so maybe its an attempt to find a broad piece of common ground. OK. But as a teacher I would not want to spend so much time confirming a bias that I had to later undo. This brings me to the MOOC itself. I'm very early into the experience. The typical thing users say is that they feel overwhelmed. That's not exactly the word I would use. The reading/viewing material is pretty light. There are a lot of potential discussion topics in Coursera, along with Twitter feeds, a Google Plus group, etc. etc. So it's a little hard to figure out where to find one's audience. I feel like my audience is here and connected to the MOOC through the Twitter hashtag. I will post in Coursera some, but I do face a rhetorical quandry there. I'm not sure what the point is. Maybe I'll find out.  
3949	Yes	 Blog:  College Ready Writing You want you kids to be happy, successful, fulfilled. You want them to make good choices. You try to help them avoid the same mistakes you made when you were younger. And then you hear them teaching their younger brother. And panic sets in. My daughter just started kindergarten this year. She is (quantifiably) the smartest kid in her class . And not just by a little. She has a wonderful teacher and we are working to make sure that she remains challenged by what she is learning, to avoid getting bored, but also so she learns some perseverance and how to “work” hard. These were two things that both my husband and I regret about our schooling; because school was easy, we didn’t try, and when we were finally (intellectually) challenged, we didn’t know how to handle it. For me, it was worse because I just figured that the easy way was the best way, and so I avoided challenges (reasoning: easy things got me lots of praise while hard things didn’t).  Now, having said this, she (thankfully) also seems to be well-liked by her classmates. I say thankfully because I was (at worst) bullied and (at best) ostracized throughout elementary school. I was a weird, socially awkward kid: a tomboy who loved science fiction and swam, as opposed to the rest of the girls who did ballet and figure skating. But I also know that being smart (and in particular the smartest kid in the class) can be dangerous. There’s still lots of time for that to change, but so far, so good. The other day, the kids were playing on my laptop while I graded at home. They enjoy the website Starfall and it is nominally educational so I allow it, if only so I can get some work done. My daughter is excellent on the site, while my son (who just turned four) has difficulty maneuvering the track pad, as well as understanding how to “fix” things when my Flash inevitably fails. His sister patiently explained and re-explained, modeled and encouraged the ins and outs of the site, as well as how to “play” a number of the games available. I was really impressed with how she interacted with her younger brother, and I can well imagine that this is why she is well-liked among her classmates: patient, kind, and (for a five-year-old) considerate. And then it hit me: she is an excellent teacher. Now, far be it for me to make any long-term prognostications based on one exchange (and besides, she says she wants to be a pilot), but I am quietly dreading the possibility that one the day that she comes home and announces that she wants to be a teacher. Or worse, an academic like her parents. Now I feel like I have to twist myself inside out asserting that I value and respect teachers and what they do for my kids. But I also know that her kindergarten class has 27 kids in it. And I know how little teachers make. And how much bureaucratic nonsense they have to deal with. And how little respect she will receive from society. And, and, and. And a university professor? I can’t in good conscious tell her that grad school is a great idea. And who knows what higher education is going to look like in 15 years. I already know that she will probably have to go into debt to attend college (we’re too busy paying off our own student loans to save for either of our kids’ educations), so more debt, with the real possibility of low-paying adjunct work. Is that the future I want for my daughter? I said in the beginning of this post that we want to try and help our kids avoid the same mistakes we made. There are some days, despite the triumphs and intangibles, that I still think that maybe graduate school was a mistake. And in 15 years, when my daughter is making this decision, we’ll hopefully be in a better place, career-wise. She will have forgotten these early (and probably later) years of struggle. And while intellectually I know that educators, great educators, are important and integral to our society, I can’t help shake this feeling: I want something better for her. 
3950	Yes	 Howard Rheingold Ethan Zuckerman (@EthanZ) will deliver the keynote at this year's Digital Media amp; Learning Conference , "Democratic Futures," March 14-16 in Chicago, and we asked Howard Rheingold (@hrheingold) to vlog with Zuckerman, director of the Center for Civic Media at MIT and co-founder of Global Voices. As Rheingold, author of Smart Mobs and Net Smart , writes below: "Don’t miss the video. Zuckerman does most of the talking, and he knows what he’s talking about." “What’s the most important possible effect of many-to-many communication?” I asked myself when I first started writing about life online. The term “social media” wouldn’t exist for decades, so in 1987 I called them “virtual communities.” When I started writing a book about emerging computer-mediated cultures, I remember sitting with a notebook in my garden, wondering to myself what the BBS discourse of the pre-Internet era might grow into. It didn’t take long for me to decide to focus on the potential impact of online media on political freedom – individual liberty, the power to elect one’s own leaders and use public opinion and the political machinery to influence policy. I knew nothing at the time about the political philosophers who had been asking the same question long before the computer was invented. Pursuing that line of inquiry very quickly brought me to the idea of “the public sphere.” The ultimate authority on the public sphere, Jürgen Habermas, had little to say about the role of the Internet – but I still think his ideas about a necessary foundation for democracy as a combination of freedoms, places to socialize, and the debates underlying political self-governance offered a powerful lens for examining the possible political influence of digital publics. In the political sense, and to vastly oversimplify from a short quote, public sphere is “a domain of our social life in which such a thing as public opinion can be formed.” Nothing that has happened since 1987 has changed my suspicion that social media are having a profound influence on democracies – which is not to say that I can proudly point to vile YouTube or blog comment flame-wars as examples of the “rational-logical” discourse Habermas claimed democracy requires. When I started teaching journalism students , I felt that one thing they could learn in a classroom that they wouldn’t necessarily learn by practicing journalism was an appreciation of discourses about and practical examples of the public sphere – and the central role of journalism. While pursuing that curriculum, I came across the The Dewey-Lippman Debate (I think I’m making the case that I often learn by stumbling over things then inquiring into them). Lippmann’s skepticism about how much “the public” really knows about governing a complex society, and Dewey’s optimism about improving the public’s citizenship skills, are good sides for classroom debates. Which brings us to the 21st century, an era of social media journalism and phone-streamed revolutions, where the question of how to equip today’s citizens to deal with digital rhetorics and publics has become urgent and global. I recently talked with Ethan Zuckerman, director of the Center for Civic Media at MIT, about all these issues, and more. Don’t miss the video. Zuckerman does most of the talking, and he knows what he’s talking about. Ethan Zuckerman - Teaching New Civics from DML Research Hub on Vimeo . 
3951	Yes	 This is correct: The core purpose of a great lecturer is not primarily to transmit information… The real purpose of a lecture is to show the mind and heart of the lecturer at work, and to engage the minds and hearts of learners. A great lecture is not primarily about information—it’s about aspiration. The mark of a great lecture is that you watch the person up in the front of the hall work her way through a subject and think: I want to be like that someday… 
3952	Yes	 Wanted: 40 Trillion Gigabytes of Open Storage, Stat!, http://t.co/AvTSW4NX Congressmen Want Answers from Aaron Swartz Prosecutors, http://t.co/8n7kf7fh Amazon #39;to Put Advertising on Kindles,#39; http://t.co/E9fCavH4 Critical Fixes for the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, https://t.co/IeyloMMp Bamp;N #39;Fully Committed to Retail Concept,#39; http://t.co/tbVgt1lz | Digital Scholarship | The post Current News: Twitter Updates for 1/29/2013 appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3953	Yes	Just heard about this, fascinating.  Amoeba Records, a for-profit indie record store (and a great one) with several locations in California, is digitizing old out of print LP’s…. on an “opt out” basis ala Google Books. If they haven’t made contact with the copyright holder, they put profits in escrow for the artist (or, erm, rightsholder(s)?  Music rights are complicated and way beyond my understanding). http://www.variety.com/article/VR1118065137/ Some Vinyl Vaults artists have proven so elusive that even diligent detective work could not track them down. Henderson points to an unknown ’70s country artist known only as C.J., whose album “My Lady’s Eyes” is for sale on the site. “We couldn’t find C.J.; we couldn’t find a label that put the record out,” Henderson says. “But it’s a compelling piece, (so) we said, ‘This should be up.’ “ Weinstein adds that if a sale is made, the money goes into an escrow account. “If (someone says), ‘That’s mine,’ well, OK, we can either take it down or we’ll sell it, and you’ve got this nice (digital) master. We’ll sell it, we’ll promote it; let’s sign a contract.” I am generally pleased they are doing this. Old LP’s need digitizing. I am happy if it helps Amoeba stay in business. It  sounds like their approach is fair… …which doesn’t mean it’s legal. The opt-out nature they describe above is similar to the kind of thing that got Google Books and HathiTrust sued…. except it’s actually less legally defensible because they aren’t just using “snippets”, they really are selling complete digitized work.  (HathiTrust one, but may not have if they had been a for-profit endeavor, let alone selling complete copies!  Google Books lawsuit is still unresolved). I wonder how deep their legal risk analysis went, and what that analysis was, or if they are just kind of doing it naively, or what.  Either way, it doesn’t neccesarily mean they’ll get sued…. but the ‘performing rights organizations’ for music like BMI employ armies of people who’s jobs it is to ‘protect music rights’ by extracting licensing fees. On the other hand, I guess this isn’t a ‘performance rights’ issue; like I said, music rights are complicated and mostly confuse me. But I hope it works out for them, and all the artists involved. It also saddens me that this kind of truly essential work of preserving cultural heritage…. would probably never be done by a library, for a variety of reasons including the possible legal risk, but also just plain lack of interest, lack of resources, lack of institutional motivation. Filed under: General 
3954	Yes	 Himself, he never took too seriously—his work most seriously. He regarded the somewhat gaudy figure of Bogart, the star, with an amused cynicism; Bogart, the actor, he held in deep respect…In each of the fountains at Versailles there is a pike which keeps all the carp active; otherwise they would grow overfat and die. Bogie [...]
3955	Yes	 The Sidewalk Life of Successful Communities MediaCommons 3457422021_56526a400e_o.jpg Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities right 
3956	Yes	 By Lisa Smith , Wamp;M Contributor Perhaps the most famous cure-all of all time is Lydia E. Pinkham’s Vegetable Compound, immortalized in song as “Lily the Pink” (or “The Ballad of Lydia Pinkham”).* Although the original vegetable compound aimed to treat women’s ailments, the song suggests—tongue in cheek–that it might have much wider, rather miraculous applications. The boy with sticky out ears learns how to fly; the man who thought himself Julius Caesar becomes emperor of Rome. Ridiculous. How, after all, could one drug cure so many ailments? In the modern world, cure-alls just don’t make sense. But they did at one time. In early modern Europe, cure-all medicines were as likely to be sold by elite physicians as by “quacks” and were often made domestically. These treatments made sense. In a humoral body , with its properties of cold, hot, wet and dry, many seemingly different problems might have the same underlying cause. Bridget Hyde’s book, late seventeenth century. Wellcome Library, MS 2990, f. 52v. Image Credit: Wellcome Library. “Dr Stevens’ Water” was a common remedy in English remedy collections kept by well-to-do families. Authors sometimes provided lists of a treatment’s “virtues”, which usefully explain the underlying rationale. Bridget Hyde, for example, described Dr. Stevens’ Water as good for the vital spirits, inward colds, palsy, dropsy, gout, bladder stones, weak sinews, barrenness, worms, tooth-ache, stomach, and “rayns of ye back”. (Reins of the back refers to a urinary or genital discharge.) An even more impressive and random list than Lydia Pinkham’s Vegetable Compound! What all of these illnesses had in common, however, was that they were caused by cold and wet humours. Looking up each ingredient in herbals and pharmacopoeias reveals that herbs like nutmegs, cloves, mace, aniseeds, lavender and rosemary (for example) had warming and drying properties.  Rosemary was ruled by the Sun and Aries; given its warming and comforting properties, it was commonly prescribed for any problems caused by cold humours. Mace, ruled by Venus, was chiefly used for treating problems of the womb. Sometimes the connections are surprising. “Pertes de sang” (or blood loss) in French collections could refer to general losses of blood, excessive menstruation or uterine bleeding, miscarriage – or diarrhoea.  For example, one remedy for fluxes of blood in Mme Lievain’s book (Wellcome Library MS 3258, f. 132) also specified its use in diarrhoea. The main herb, cinquefoil, was commonly used for stomach problems as well as fluxes of all kinds, with a cooling property to sweeten the blood. Most cure-alls did not try to treat everything, but had a clear rationale and focused on a group of closely-related ailments. That said, not all cure-alls were created equal — and there were some weird ones out there. Lionel Lockyear, for example, claimed that his pills had the extract of the sun in them. Even better than Lily the Pink, then… Broadsheet advertising L.Lockyer’s patent medicine. Image Credit: Wellcome Library.   *A rather entertaining song, though it needs an ear worm alert. Interested in recipes and remedies? This post has been cross-posted at The Recipes Project , a group blog about historical recipes and remedies of all sorts! Lisa Smith  is an Associate Professor of History at the University of Saskatchewan. She writes on gender, family, and health care in England and France (ca. 1600-1800) and recently taught a course on natural and supernatural worlds in early modern Europe. She also blogs weekly on history of medicine and science at her  Sloane Letters Blog . For more on multi-purpose remedies, see Smith’s article, “Imagining Women’s Fertility before Technology”, Journal of Medical Humanities , 31, 1 (2010): 69-79.   
3957	Yes	 Editor’s Note: Unlike other posts that start off text or images, Wendy Hsu @WendyFHsu opens up her third post in her guest series on digital ethnography with sound. She wants us to click PLAY before reading on. It doesn’t matter if you don’t use sound in your fieldwork, you’ll still find this to be a useful exercise in opening your ethnographic ears. After you click PLAY,  you’ll appreciate Wendy’s message: our fieldsites are rich with sound data that carries a lot of meaning. She closes her post with a great discussion theorizing digital ethnography as horizontal versus vertical immersion. Part 1 of  On Digital Ethnography, What do computers have to do with ethnography? Part 2  On Digital Ethnography: mapping as a mode of data discovery Check out  past posts from guest bloggers .  __________________________________________________________ Above is a field recording of mini pinball machines that I collected in the Lungtan township in Taiwan. In it, you can hear the sounds of the machines, scooters, and a conversation that I had with my father while we were trying to figure out how to play the pinball machines. This field recording is rich in texture and meaning. I know that not all ethnographers work with sound. But I do think that it could be useful to reconsider the sonic (and by extension, the visual) dimensions of our work. I propose an engagement with the textures of human speech in its original sonic. This approach counters the traditional emphasis on text and its impulse to textualize sound in ethnography. This perhaps is most on conspicuous in the practice of transcribing interviews. You all can probably recall moments of dealing with the complexity of meaning embedded in the tone or the delivery of oral content in interviews. There are sounds of the environment that the informant has chosen to carry out an interview or interact with. Do these sounds reveal anything about the speaker and her relationship to her physical and social environment? Are there other voices in the room? Incidental sounds? Does the tone of the speaker react to and interact with the sounds of the environment in anyway? Where are the points of dissonance and resonance? Sounds are rich in meanings. Daniel Makagon and Mark Neumann wrote in their book Recording Culture , “getting any kind of recording is also a mode of exploration and investigation in its own right.” Sound recording can be productively considered as an ethnographic practice because it can enlighten us on social life. Textualizing interview recordings can run the risk of flattening the sonic meanings that orbit around a person’s voice and its resonance in an environment. I recommend that while we transcribe (if it has to be done), we pause and listen closely to the textures of sounds and voices that inform our ethnographic understanding. In this post, I give you some tips on what I use digital technology to augment my engagement with the sounds in my research. I encourage you all think about how you may do this with your own fieldwork materials and data. In addition, as the third post of my series on digital ethnography, I will focus on how we might use digital technologies to deepen our engagement with the textures and materiality of culture. Digital technologies afford us the capability to engage with content  in multiple modes and at multiple levels. With the example of my webscraping project, I captured data in the form of text, and then translated it into lat-long coordinates that subsequently became visualized as pins and clusters on a map . These clusters then become resized, forming perceptible patterns, as I zoomed in and out on the map. The combination of scalability and multimodality that digital technology offers makes visible both (micro) details and (macro) patterns of cultural content that were previously imperceptible to us. Humans are better than computers at finding patterns that are meaningful because our minds are able to handle contextual thinking and calculating really well. But we also pale in comparison when it comes to switching between modes and scales. So why shy away from utilizing computational power to help facilitate our analytical processes? Seeing the textures of sound As an ethnographer who works primarily with sound, in the form of field recordings, interviews, and music recordings, I have found utility in leveraging digital audio workstation [ DAW ] for the analytical purposes. On my last trip to Taiwan, I was lucky enough to get my hands on a set of cassettes of nakashi (postcolonial itinerant) musicians entitled The Wandering Blind Singers [Figure 1]. Figure 1: Wandering Blind Singers, cassette collection During the process of digitization, I came to notice sounds that were extraneous to the content of the music. Using Audacity , a free and open-source audio workstation program, I quickly saw that the recordings in this tape set are done in mono. This is unusual since most studio recordings in Taiwan have been produced stereo since the late 70s. Looking at the waveform, which displays the change in amplitude (volume of sound) over time, I found that many of the tracks get cut off before the natural decay of the instruments complete. You can see an abrupt amplitude reduction [figure 2]. Figure 2: Waveform displaying an abrupt amplitude reduction in Audacity Upon closer listening, I discovered an occasional environmental sound seeping through the walls in the studio. In one song, the sounds from a vehicle moving on the street got picked up in the recording. All of these observations add up to an amateur low-fidelity and low-budget production quality. These characteristics, in the context of the recording history in Taiwan, are rather unusual. My conjecture is that this low-budget production is telling of the lower-class status of these nakashi musicians and their fringe position in both the music industry and the society at large. Inspired by  Tanya Clement ‘s on distant listening — as a technique to obscure sonic patterns of Gertrude Stein’s poetry — I began looking at the spectrograms of these recordings. In contrast with waveform, spectrograms reveals patterns of frequency (as well as amplitude) changes over time. Thankfully, Audacity makes this mode of sound visualization available through only one click . Spectrograms are particularly useful when I am analyzing the stylistic qualities and vocal timbres of nakashi singers. Notably, these singers’ tight, enka-inspired vibrato stands out as horizontal wiggles on the spectrogram [Figure 3]. You can listen to this particular portion of the song by playing it back on the SoundCloud player below the image. I imagine that this mode of visualization would be useful in exploring the stylistic contours of vibrato across the related musical genres. [If you’re interested in playing with spectrograms in Audacity, I recommend this video tutorial by Matt Thibeault .] Figure 3: Spectrogram illustrative of enka-style vibrato Seeing leads to further inquiries I imagine that the same attention can be applied to visual content (video and photographs), especially after seeing Tricia’s successes with using Instragram as a field image annotation method. I stumbled upon surprises when I was scanning the album art and liner notes of some of the nakashi tapes. After scanning and then zooming in on the image, I gained a closer view of the granularity of the album art to discover traces of its print production. I will take  a cassette entitled “Sounds from Taiwan’s Underclass Vol. 2″, a mix of field recordings and low-budget studio recordings of nakashi artists, Catholic worship songs of Taiwanese aboriginal groups, among others, compiled by renown music critic He Yingyi . The cassette was released by the Taiwan’s historically important indie label Crystal Records in 1995. After zooming in on the artwork, I discovered an unusual dotted pattern in black ink that underlays a few color layers [Figure 4]. Figure 4: halftone album art, zoomed in According to my archivist colleague, this pattern indicates that the album art was printed via the halftone technique. Without knowing the history of print in Taiwan, I gathered that this print work was done cheaply. By the mid 1990s, Taiwan was the major site of manufacturing of computational components. Halftoning, a common print technique a few decades prior to the 1990s, would have been considered as obsolete in the time of cassette’s production. Given the fact that this cassette was printed as a laser disc, and its Vol. 1 counterparts printed as a double-CD set in the 1991, I suspect that there might have been an another intention, besides saving cost, behind the choice of halftoning the album art. My guess is that the halftone technique was deployed to signify the music’s associations to the social underclass of Taiwan. This hypothesis, of course, is only the beginning of further explorations of cassette and print culture in Taiwan. Before we hurry into tagging and filing media content based on their relevance to our research questions, why not spend some contemplative time deepening our sensory engagement with field materials in their various modes and scales? Small observations can lead to big discoveries. Empiricism, immersion, and all the things we care about A deepened engagement with cultural content in sonic, visual, and geographic registers has allowed me to see patterns of social linkage and cultural meanings that I had not anticipated in traditional forms of field data analysis. I think of these data processing methods as ways to achieve “radical empiricism,” a term that I use to describe my goals in finding and documenting socio-musical processes with empirical specificity and precision. I consider the strive toward empirical precision a form of immersion, a point that Jenna Burrell raises in one of her posts on big data . She cites Howard Becker’s statement to evoke the ethnographic interest in empirical closeness — “the nearer we get to the conditions in which [the people we are studying] actually do attribute meanings to objects and events, the more accurate our description of those meanings are likely to be” (Becker 1996). To this notion, Burrell draws a helpful distinction between ethnographers and big data scientists by saying that former “do a whole lot of complementary work to try to connect apparent behavior to underlying meaning.” To add to that discussion, I’d claim that computational immersion is not exclusive to the domain of big data. We ethnographers, too, can achieve immersion — through a computational means — in communities that are digitally embedded or not. I like to think of this computational immersion in two different directions: horizontal and vertical [Figure 5]. Horizontal immersion explores general contours of social actions and events. It typically engages with a large number of data points and provides categorical answers. I consider projects that are heavy on the side of datamining (like my Myspace webscraping project or Alan Lomax’s cantometrics ) to take on a horizontal contour. Figure 5: Bi-directional immersion in digital ethnography A vertical approach, on the contrary, engages with a single artifact (potentially event, dialog) that represents patterns of cultural life on a larger scale. The techniques that I discussed in this post would fall into the vertical category. Visualizing sound and magnifying images as an interpretative intervention afforded me a closer access to the subtle nuggets of meaning that often resists categorical thinking. Most ethnographers I know engage with their objects of study in both horizontal and vertical manner, but we usually call it something different, generality-specificity or macro-micro. As ethnographers, we study the social and cultural life. With the tools at our disposal, we could digitize virtually all elements of life. I’m confident that sources of data will to grow abundantly (although our access to them may not). Through the use of recently refined sensing technologies, we could collect data pertaining not only clicks on websites (big data type sources), but also embodied data such as sound, sight, gestures (e.g. digitizing musical performance gestures ), positions, etc. So I invite other ethnographically minded colleagues to innovate together the use of emerging computational means to extend our immersive ethnographic practices. I’m a proponent of playing with and repurposing technologies out-of-the-box and beyond, to deepen our data exploration and engagement. The reason I emphasize “playing” is because it often leads to discoveries outside of the mode and scale of conventional data process. And I find these surprises most fruitful in generating further inquiries and speculations. So far in this series, I have discussed the role of emerging technology in facilitating field data acquisition and processing. In my final post, I will talk about how we can think outside of the monograph as a medium while harnessing the powers of digital platforms to present ethnographic narrative and argumentation. I can’t wait to introduce some creative multimodal ethnographies! ____________ Part 1 of  On Digital Ethnography, What do computers have to do with ethnography? Part 2  On Digital Ethnography: mapping as a mode of data discovery 
3958	Yes	 Earlier this year, Iwas fascinated to read the account of a participatory project at the Morrison County Historical Society in Minnesota, in which community members were invitedto write essays about “what’s it like” to have various life experiences in theCounty. One of the invited participants—the one who inspired the project—is ayoung transgender person. Mary Warner, the Museum Manager at the HistoricalSociety, wrote a series of moving articles for her museum newsletter and laterfor the AASLH’s Small Museum Online Community about her experiences tackling bigissues in a small museum. While the articles focus on the controversy around GLBT representation (which is fascinating), I was curious to learn more aboutthe project itself. I called Mary to learnmore about this brilliant example of a small museum thinking in big andcourageous ways about community participation in local history. For context,the Morrison County Historical Society has four paid staff members and engagesabout 2,000-3,000 visitors per year. How did this projectget started? Like most of our projects here, it’s a case of organicdevelopment based on our mission, which is Morrison County history. We on staffhave always had the sense that we want to collect the histories of people whodon’t have their histories collected that often – to have a representativesample that’s not just the famous people or the rich people. For example, we’re interested in GLBT and Jewish historiesin our County – how do we get those stories? How do we get the history of thepoor? We’re an actively collecting museum, and we’re always thinking about howwe can take an inclusive approach with the artifacts and archives we collect. But how did thisspecific project get started? We had a board member who kept asking us to do oralhistories. We on staff have so much to do, there are only four of us, and weknow oral histories are so labor-intensive. We’ve done a few; I’ll interviewsomeone for a specific reason for an article or to add to a file. But we wantedto do something a little more formal to capture more. It’s sort of weird how it happened. We have this boardmember asking for oral histories. And then my son’s friend--I knew he wastransgender--and so I wondered, if I do an essay project, would he write onefor me? The whole “what’s it like” theme was based on him. So did you start byapproaching your son’s friend to see if he would participate? When I start a project, I like to first get it into awritten form that anybody can follow. That’s a habit for our volunteer projects– we have to figure out how are we going to communicate what we want fromparticipants. So I put all the forms together first. And then I went to myson’s friend and asked him if he would he write an essay, and he did. Why did you decide tocollect essays as opposed to digital media, perhaps video or audio? I think part of writing for us – we do this all the time –if there’s a web source, we will print it off and add it to the archive. Westruggle with how to save digital media. If we do an essay project, it’s thewritten word, we can print it out and save it and it will be here in a hundredyears. A lot of museums startthis kind of project with big intentions, but then they really struggle to getparticipation. I was impressed by how much success you’ve already had incapturing essays—not an easy thing to do. What did you do to recruit orencourage participation? Well, our goal is 100 essays, and we’re not there yet. Wehave about 25 now. But it’s the kind of thing we need to keep pushing, and wehaven’t in a while. We went to the genealogy group, and a whole bunch of themsubmitted. I think one person may have submitted something directly on the web,but mostly these are solicited. You have to remind people, keep reaching out. Ittakes constant reaching out, and reminding. Not everyone feels confident abouttheir writing. It would be a great thing to take into a school and do but wehaven’t done that yet. How did you decide totranslate the essay project into an exhibition? Whenever we are creating content, we like to use it in avariety of formats. We have two permanent exhibition galleries and then a longhallway that we use for a special exhibition that lasts about a year. We try tocycle artifacts and really milk all the content we create through exhibitions,our newsletter, on our website, and in programs. So we decided to do the essay project, and then our curatorsaid, hey this year let’s do our essay project as the exhibit. So we pulled objects from our collection to connect with theessays. In one case, someone wrote an essay about being a newspaper boy, and hehad already donated his newspaper bag. How did you selectwhich essays to turn into exhibits? Really, it was about which stories we had good objects for.We didn’t ask people if we could exhibit them, but when we were explaining theessay project, we explained that the essays would be used. Most people knowthat if they are donating their stuff to the museum, it is going to be used –in the newsletter, on the website. Where did the interestspecifically in GLBT history come from? What kinds of conversations did youhave with staff and board members about the potential touchiness of the issue? There’s a history with the GLBT community with people not beingout for the good share of our history, and then there’s a recent turning point,but we still have GLBT folks in our history – we know that about them, but howcan we write about it now? We didn’t discuss anything about the possibility of negativereaction, even though we know that the dominant attitude in Morrison County isanti-GLBT. It was just: here’s this essay project we’re going to do, and wehave this inclusive attitude, so of course we’re going to collect this history.It’s ok. We’re going to do it. The only time we had to really deal with it was when weexperienced two incidents of blowback. One woman came in on a tour and said,“why are you displaying that?” I told her if we didn’t show that story, wewould not be covering our history. Once I had talked to the lady and told her this was where wewere coming from, she thanked me and told me that she and her husband weregoing to talk about it and think about it. We’re not trying to change minds,but we do want to encourage people to go ahead and think about what you see. And then there was the anonymous letter . It was pretty clearthat this letter came from someone who was not already part of the museum. Thatletter didn’t come until after we’d talked about it in our local paper. We hadpublished the same article in our newsletter and we didn’t hear a peep. One of the things thatcame up in that anonymous letter was the person questioning whether it was“history” to talk about someone’s contemporary experience. Is that somethingyou’ve heard other feedback about with this project? Actually, we’ve heard it before. A few years ago, we had amusic exhibit, and we put a cellphone on exhibit because there are ringtonesthat go with cellphones. A lot of people were engaged by it, but they also wereconfused about why it would be in the museum. We are interested in contemporarycollecting, so we do it, and we are constantly educating people that currenthistory is history too. 
3959	Yes	 Olivia Cothren graduated from the Cooperstown Graduate Program and now works at the Historic House Trust in New York City. The Historic House Trust has begun to discuss ways to make museums and historic houses more accessible to the public. I felt many of the ideas in this discussion also reflect issues libraries face. Below are some questions I asked Olivia about increasing public engagement in museums and libraries and the role of students in this process.   The Anarchist Guide to House Museums is a Twitter and Linked-In conversation led by the Historic House Trust to address and change the perception that museums are “boring…socially out of touch… and expensive.” I think these are perceptions that some people apply to libraries too. Why do you think this is a persistent perception of museums and libraries? I think the common link between museums and libraries here is the way that they have traditionally been operated.  Historically, museums and libraries were characterized by what you couldn’t do inside them. Museums: “don’t touch.”  Libraries: “don’t talk.”  This culture of “don’t” still affects public perception, although I’d argue that libraries have come much farther in this regard than museums.  Broadening collections to include multimedia items, offering computer access, wi-fi and public classes — when my local library instituted these changes 10 or 15 years ago, it had a huge impact in my hometown.  The library became a great community resource by responding to the evolving needs of its local citizens.  Many libraries have been able to cultivate this kind of community identity by being open to change.  Museums strive for this as well, but have had more limited success.  Historic houses usually lag even farther behind.  I think the only way to change public perception is to actively seek input from visitors–or even better, people who are not yet visiting you–to figure out what they want and need and then use that information as a guide to building a more public-minded institution.   What are your favorite or most interesting ideas about increasing community engagement that have arisen from the Anarchist Guide to House Museums conversation? The best ideas about community engagement are often the simplest.  Having visitors post sticky-notes with their opinions around the house museum, hosting legislative breakfasts for elected officials, encouraging instead of banning our visitors’ use of cell phones and cameras to increase social media presence, partnering with local  non-arts organizations, transforming one room in a historic house into a community room to host local events — all of these are great ideas and none are particularly difficult to actually do.  It’s the willingness to change and time constraints that are often the greater hurdles.  But it’s been very encouraging to hear about successful community engagement efforts in our Anarchist discussions. One of the concerns I saw voiced on the Linked-In discussion was that this approach could turn a historic house tour into a “circus” and take away from the museum’s main job to educate the public. This concern has been in echoed in the New York City Public Library, where there is worry that plans to renovate the main public library building will change the library from a renowned research institution to a social space more like an internet cafe or coffee shop. How should we balance traditional approaches to museums and libraries with other more radical approaches? I’m not as familiar with the library field, but visitation to historic house has been on a steep decline for years.  Traditionalists can try to stall change or criticize modern updates, but the obvious truth is that our methods have been failing.  What is the point of preserving a building or a collection if no one comes to see or use it?  Museums and libraries can’t just operate in a vacuum or a time capsule and expect to thrive; we need to evolve along with our community.  In our Anarchist Guide, we call for a holistic re-evaluation of historic house museums and question even fundamental tenets of the field.  I might not be the best person to ask about balance between the traditional and the radical because I don’t really think of anything as too radical anymore!  I’m sure the growth of e-readers/death of print “problem” is old hat to you library folks and it seems like it is inspiring a similar field-wide reassessment of your place in society from here on out.  To me, the new NYPL plans present a logical and useful new future for the library.  It’s unfortunate that people are opposing making it a more public place that more people will be able to use? In some ways it seems students are in a unique position to change traditional perceptions of museums and libraries. In what ways can Museum Studies and GLIS students positively influence change and innovation? This is so true!  In terms of community engagement, we “know better” than our predecessors.  We’re lucky to be educated in a time when museums and libraries are looking deep within themselves and questioning the legitimacy of basic foundations of our fields in today’s increasingly complex and diverse society.  I think social media plays a huge part here.  The younger generation has certainly been leading the way in proving that social media is not just some passing fad but a legitimate source of communication, education, marketing and community engagement.  Blogging was an important part of my graduate curriculum; I think it’s essential that social media continue to play an expanding role in grad programs.  It’s also important to note that students, eager to participate and unburdened by institutional politics, always bring fresh ideas to organizations through internships and special projects.  It often takes that objective student perspective for an institution to realize something about itself, so I think internships have a real weight to them. What was your favorite Museum Studies class? All of them?!    Museum school was the best.  In my Research and Fieldwork course, we conducted an oral history interview with a community member.  That was one of my favorite assignments.  I was also obsessed with my American Folk Art class.  Folk art is so democratic — truly “of the people, by the people, for the people.”  Oral history is the same way.  Both make history accessible and shed light on the common American experience.  And that’s basically what it boils down to for museums and libraries: making our holdings accessible to everyone and encouraging discovery. What do you think? What lessons do libraries and museums have to learn from each other? How can we make ourselves more accessible to our patrons? What is the role students play in this discussion? Join in the conversation-  @hhtnyc,   Anarchist Guide to Museums Historic House LinkedIn page and the HLS blog comment board! Filed under: Discussions 
3960	Yes	 Today Colin Warren and I were very pleased to be invited by the colleagues who run the Graduate Certificate of Higher Education  at Deakin , to come and share our thoughts on the evolving concept of networked academics. As it was a late afternoon session, after a day of student presentations, we wanted to keep it simple and just share some practical tips. Keep it applied. We focused on the habits we’ve seen exhibited by networked academics that can be adopted by newcomers and included some quick activities. SO this is by no means comprehensive. We also emphasized that networking habits are a matter of choice, everyone should decide what’s right for them and where to start. No one should feel pressured to do everything. We prepared a digital handout for reference, and in case we would run out of time, which we of course did. Some of you may find this useful, so we’re sharing it here. Related Posts: Digital Curation: What kind of digital curator are you? #converge11 And then there were 14! #moodletoolguide When Educators Become Curators – keynote slides from #moothr12 One way to grow a networked teacher, is to grow a networked learner #pln Social media use in a crisis – #eqnz – help us learn 
3961	Yes	 GIS software for the Digital Humanities: A free two-day workshop Lancaster University, 11-12th April, 2013 Tags:  Spatial Humanities; GIS 
3962	Yes	 The 3 coupled interactive maps " What educational policy change looks like " [lonelydatum.com], developed by Gar Liu , reveals the impact of Michigan state to increase the minimum score needed on the state test to be considered "proficient". The maps provide an overview of how the impact of this legislation varied from district to district and across the subjects of reading, math and science. The greater the percentage drop in proficiency rates since 2010, the darker the shading, and vice versa. Accordingly, one can perceive less contrast on the reading map as there was a considerably smaller range of percentage decreases compared to other subjects, such as math and science. In addition, the map shows some correlation between income and the decrease in grades, as the areas with higher income seem to be least affected by the new policy. Also, reading seems to be not as difficult in demonstrating proficiency, as opposed to science. 
3963	Yes	Rebecca Gould has self-archived quot; Open-Sourcing the Global Academy: Aaron Swartz#39;s Legacy quot; in SSRN. Here#39;s an excerpt: This essay examines Swartz#39;s Open Access vision, and traces the challenges he faced in carrying out his dream. Arguing that Open Access is the future of scholarship in the digital age, I outline concrete strategies for bringing Swartz#39;s dream to fruition. | Scholarly Electronic Publishing Weblog | Digital Scholarship | The post quot;Open-Sourcing the Global Academy: Aaron Swartz’s Legacyquot; appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3964	Yes	The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Libraries are recruiting a Triangle Research Libraries Network Program Officer . Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : Reporting to the TRLN Executive Director, the person in this position will support consortium-wide activities and initiatives of the Collections Council. A chief concern of this Council (http://www.trln.org/committee/CollectionCouncil/index.htm) is addressing the challenges and constraints of e-resources relative to print. The Program Officer will support the Collaborative Print Retention Program through which TRLN members share retention and storage of print materials. The Program Officer will support the consortium-wide licensing of electronic resources and the work of the Electronic Resources Committee (http://www.trln.org/eresource/index.htm). This individual will also provide support to large-scale digitization projects. The post Triangle Research Libraries Network Program Officer at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Libraries appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3965	Yes	James Aaron has self-archived quot; The Authors Guild v. Hathitrust: A Way Forward for Digital Access to Neglected Works in Libraries quot; in SSRN. Here#39;s an excerpt: This Comment begins by describing the HathiTrust Orphan Works Project and what it renames the neglected works problem. Next, it examines the legality of the project under current copyright law, focusing mainly on fair use under section 107, and concludes that it is unclear whether the project violates copyright law. Finally it analyzes whether this result fits the policy goals of copyright, and because it does not, proposes both legislative and judicial changes to copyright law to make it clear that in the proper circumstances, nonprofit, educational uses of neglected works do not violate copyright law. | Google Books Bibliography (XHTML website; over 320 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post quot;The Authors Guild v. Hathitrust: A Way Forward for Digital Access to Neglected Works in Librariesquot; appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3966	Yes	The San Jose State University Library is recruiting a Special Collections Digitization Coordinator. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : This position provides technical planning, implementation, project coordination, problem-solving, and quality control for Special Collections digitization projects. The Digitization Coordinator serves as the department#39;s liaison to Technical Services, where the majority of the metadata creation takes place, and collaborates with the Head of Cataloging and the Associate Dean of Digital Futures on new digitization projects. This position administers the library#39;s content management system for digital collections, CONTENTdm, works with the vendor to troubleshoot problems, and implements enhancements that add value to the collection. | Digital Scholarship | The post Special Collections Digitization Coordinator at San Jose State University Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
3967	Yes	 Did Mondrian know Kandinsky? The Inventing Abstraction Network Diagram [moma.org] forms the center piece of a new exhibition at MoMA that celebrates the centennial anniversary of the concept of abstraction. Available as an interactive diagram on the exhibition's website as well as printed as a large-scale display that is 16x25 feet tall (~5x7.5m), the network maps the documented acquaintances between those individuals that played a significant role in the development of abstract art. Or, in other words, the network captures the social interactions between like-minded artists, well before the invention of Facebook or Twitter. The names in red denote those with the most connections in the group. Do not miss the short documentary movie about the actual design of the network diagram, and how the choice of colors and font type was largely inspired by a famous line chart on this subject, designed in 1936 by MoMA first director Alfred Barr Junior . 
3968	Yes	Today Jisc and Ithaka S+R are launching “ Sustaining Our Digital Future: Institutional Strategies for Digital Content ”, a new report aimed at helping digital projects to thrive. This report, which provides a close look at three institutions (UCL, Imperial War Museums and the National Library of Wales) in the United Kingdom confirms: •How fragmented the digital landscape is at universities and within other organizations •How there are examples of good practice within and outside higher education that all can learn from but that greater co-ordination is required to deliver this at a UK level •How little the topic of post-build sustainability comes up at the higher levels of administration •How risk is present within the current system, concerning the sustainability of digital content. “It’s a wakeup call for us all,” said Andrew Green, chief executive and librarian at the National Library of Wales. “It’s essential reading for anyone in the business of access to digital content.” The report, complete with effective recommendations includes a Sustainability Health Check Tool for Digital Content Projects , which helps people to ascertain what tools or resources projects could use to be even more successful. With funding from the Jisc-led Strategic Content Alliance (SCA) in the United Kingdom, the Canadian Heritage Information Network , and the National Endowment for the Humanities in the United States , Ithaka S+R is conducting a multi-year research program to shed light on common challenges associated with sustaining digital projects beyond implementation and provide guidance and tools to help administrators, project leaders, librarians, and funders ensure that projects continue to grow. This report is the first in the series. For more on sustainability and related issues, go to the SCA blog . Share and Enjoy • Facebook • Twitter • Delicious • LinkedIn • StumbleUpon • Add to favorites • Email • RSS 
3969	Yes	Cheerful UK users of iCloud, Google Drive and other US-based services might do well to ponder this . Cloud computing has exploded in recent years as a flexible, cheap way for individuals, companies and government bodies to remotely store documents and data. According to some estimates, 35 per cent of UK firms use some sort of cloud system – with Google Drive, Apple iCloud and Amazon Cloud Drive the major players. But it has now emerged that all documents uploaded onto cloud systems based in the US or falling under Washington’s jurisdiction can be accessed and analysed without a warrant by American security agencies. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, known as FISA, allows US government agencies open access to any electronic information stored by non-American citizens by US-based companies. Quietly introduced during the dying days of President George W Bush’s administration in 2008, it was renewed over Christmas 2012. But only now are privacy campaigners and legal experts waking up to the extent of the intrusion. Time for UK-based cloud services? 
3970	Yes	 thepeoplesrecord : Guatemala: Indigenous village declares internet access a human right August 03, 2012 In the indigenous village of Santiago Atitlan , Internet access has been declared “a human right” by both their inhabitants and local authorities. Authorities are also implementing a plan to provide free community Wi-Fi to the entire population so that everyone can benefit from it and exercise their rights. The concepts of community and sharing are entrenched into the daily life of indigenous people in Guatemala. Common spaces, open doors, collaboration and sharing are the main characteristics of communities, specially among small linguistic communities such as the Mayan Tzutuhil indigenous group in the Highlands of Guatemala. As cultures evolve and adapt to the new discoveries of science and technology, indigenous cultures are embracing new technologies and adapter their use with their traditional principles. That is the case of Internet access. The youth of Santiago Atitlan pro-actively use digital tools. Their programme I respond! and you? ( Yo Respondo, y Tu?)  [es] is broadcast via the Internet and local cable TV and promoted throughout social networks. There they host dialogues discussing local problems, such as recycling and other ecological issues. The group dedicated a show to the community Wi-Fi project once the first phase was ready. During the episode, called “Internet… my human right”, Frank La Rue, the  UN Special Rapporteur  on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, was invited to launch the community Wi-Fi. The Special Rapporteur congratulated the community and celebrated that Internet access is recognized as an effective tool to exercise and enforce other rights. As described by Radio Ati, the community Wi-Fi project is a result of the joint efforts of the population and local authorities: Tomás Chiviliú, mayor of the city, points out that one of his purposes is to bring transparency to local public information, therefore they developed a network allowing the free circulation of information between different local government offices. That led them to install all the necessary equipment and offer Internet to the entire neighbourhood. He added that it is important to guarantee access to information in general, because it is of benefit to the youth, local companies and tourism. While Santiago Atitlan is one of the poorest villages in Central America, it is leading the way by providing communal Internet access. However, the network is password protected: the password, “I am Atitlan” (Yo soy Atitlan), seeks to strengthen local identity and remind its users that the people accessing the network are located next to one of the most beautiful lakes in the world, Atitlan Lake . The Municipality of Santiago Atitlan is also very active on Facebook [es] and Twitter with the account @atitlanmuni [es]. Santiago Atitlan and its people are teaching the rest of us three important lessons: Internet is a rights enabler, since it makes the exercise of other rights possible, such as, the right to know; community Wi-Fi, as described by the mayor, has many benefits; and finally, new technologies are of extreme importance for indigenous cultures, as they enable indigenous youth to share their millenarian cultures with the world, spread their ideas, and invent a future without borders.  The future is now, and you can live it in the village of Santiago Atitlan. Source In my Virtual Anthropology class, we studied the way indigenous communities use the internet around the world. It was really interesting the way website design could create spaces on the internet that honestly reflected the culture and communities’ values. In another life, that would be an awesome thing to dedicate the next ten or so years to - design anthropology for internet spaces created for indigenous communities. In related news, last month the U.N. affirmed that Internet freedom is a basic human right. In another twenty years, the fact that this was ever a question will be openly acknowledged as an absurdity. Continue reading → 
3971	Yes	I was wondering what percentage of subscribers to the Code4Lib mailing list were male and female, and consequently I wrote a hack. This posting describes it — the hack that is, genderizing names. I own/moderate a mailing list called Code4Lib . The purpose of the list is provide a forum for the discussion of computers in libraries. It started out as a place to discuss computer programming, but it has evolved into a community surrounding the use of computers in libraries in general. I am also interested in digital humanities computing techniques, and I got to wondering whether or not I could figure out the degree the list is populated by men and women. To answer this question, I: extracted a list of all subscribers removed everything from the list except the names changed the case of all the letters to lower case parsed out the first word of the name and assumed it was a given name tabulated (counted) the number of times that name occurred in the list queried a Web Service called Gendered Names to determine… gender tabulated the results output the tabulated genders output the tabulate names used the tabulated genders to create pie chart used the tabulated names to create a word cloud In my opinion, the results were not conclusive. About a third of the names are “ungenderizable” because no name was supplied by a mailing list subscriber or the Gendered Names service was not able to determine gender. That aside, most of the genderized names are male (41%) and just over a quarter (26%) of the names are female. See the chart: To illustrate how the names are represented in the subscriber base, I also created a word cloud. The cloud does not include the “no named” people, the unknown genders, nor the names where there was only one occurrence. (The later have been removed to protect the innocent.) Here is the word cloud: While I do not feel comfortable giving away the original raw data, I am able to make available the script used to do these calculations as well as the script’s output: names.pl – Perl script that does the tabulations data.txt – the aggregated results (output) of the script What did I learn? My understanding of the power of counting was re-enforced. I learned about a Web Service called Gendered Names. (“Thank you, Misty De Meo!”). And I learned a bit about the make-up of the Code4Lib mailing list, but not much. 
3972	Yes	 On February 6, 2013, schools, teachers, librarians and national organizations will celebrate Digital Learning Day 2013, a day to celebrate educators and librarians who create inspirational learning opportunities for young people by effectively integrating technology use and practices in and out of the classroom. The American Library Association (ALA) will support Digital Learning Day 2013 as part of the continued effort to highlight the everyday work done by librarians to support digital literacy. The ALA is asking librarians across the country help spread the word about Digital Learning Day. The Digital Learning Day website lists numerous ways you can participate, but here are a few: Write a blog about your digital learning experiences Plan an activity on Digital Learning Day Launch a project or lesson using digital learning or discussing technology’s role in learning on that day Invite a local business person in to your class to talk about the skills needed to succeed Do a presentation to the parent-teacher association about the benefits of digital learning Digital Learning Day, sponsored by the Alliance for Excellent Education, is the culmination of year-long activities in K-12 schools, public libraries, and among educators from all walks of life. Through our ongoing work with the American Library Association’s Office for Information Technology Policy Digital Literacy Task Force, we have learned about the critical role librarians play in developing resources for classroom teachers and in designing dynamic learning opportunities for students and the public. Learn more about Digital Learning Day . The post Are You Prepared for Digital Learning Day? appeared first on District Dispatch . 
3973	Yes	I promised in my last post to discuss here three aspects of the humanism of the moment of potential ethical reflection embodied in what I have called the “Death-Disarm Sequence” of BioShock : 1) how the scholarly ruleset is merely a codification of the reflection enacted in these moments, when their potential is realized; 2) where we can find such moments in less manifestly and artistically self-referential practomimetic rulesets like A Song of Ice and Fire , Super Mario Bros. , and HALO ; 3) what happens when players of practomimetic rulesets just blow through these moments without noticing the manifest and artistic self-referentiality. As this post developed, though, I realized the first of those things needs its own post–that’s the one you’re reading now; for symmetry’s and clarity’s sakes, I’ll split up the others, too, and treat 3) in my next post and 2) in the post after that; together with this one, those posts will make an argument for a redefinition of “immersion,” which I’ll of course supply–three posts from now. I’m going to suggest here, in this one, that BioShock can actually help us see that our usual understanding of the ruleset of humanism is flawed insofar as we see it as coextensive with what professors in the humanities do. The codification of the essentially humanistic analysis available to every player of BioShock into writing articles for scholarly journals in order to win promotion is a ruleset of its own, but I want to persuade you that if we mistake that ruleset for the essence of humanistic endeavor, the humanities really are doomed. Consider this ruleset that affords the performance of writing a scholarly article on Moby Dick (or even on A Song of Ice and Fire [or even on HALO ]) and then, if you’re forced to teach a course every once in a while, of lecturing to a room full of students on a watered down version of the arguments in the article. That ruleset of academic humanities constrains those who seek to perpetuate their employment in the academy to make choices in a range defined in relation to the materials of their fields. A scholar of American literature is constrained to elucidate American literature: this constraint of choice, as I’ve demonstrated in the Rules of the Text series, constitutes a ruleset, which we professional humanists impose on the foundational activity–that is, traditionally, reading. Remember, though, that in The Rules of the Text , I showed that reading is itself a performance like the performances of the homeric bards, like the performance of a reader of an audiobook, like the performance of the player of BioShock . Thus the preliminary activity upon which this elucidation is founded is the scholar’s own performance in reading works of American literature like Moby Dick. Again, that performance within the rules of the text is exactly analogous to a gamer’s performance of BioShock . It’s the next part–the scholarly elucidation–that seems so different, and undoubtedly gives pause when considering whether to buy my argument that gamers are humanists. But this academic ruleset–especially the part about the journal articles–is the overlaying imposition of a separate game atop the basic practice of humanities. If you see doing humanities as writing journal articles and monographs, I’m not going to convince you that the player of BioShock or League of Legends is doing humanities. I want to suggest, though, that a rules-of-the-text reading of what that player is doing in relation to humanism might actually free us from an understanding of humanities as writing journal articles and monographs, and giving lectures that aren’t useful for helping students reach experiential learning-objectives that will perpetuate humanistic discourse. The practice of the humanities as student or as scholar has from its origin comprised that first performance, whether we find the humanities’ origin in the Renaissance, or in the Renaissance humanists’ partly fantastic backward gaze at the classical world generally and Athens in particular. That first performance–reading, or participating in tragedy in the Theatre of Dionysus, or listening to Herodotus’ stories–, reflected in its sequelae, like philosophy and philology, eventually became what we think of as professional humanities. I would contend that such sequelae as walkthroughs and strategy guides are equally as valid as reflections of humanistic performances as term papers and articles in academic journals. The ruleset of the academy is one possible codification of the ruleset of humanism, but if we want the humanities to survive as a going concern, it is imperative that we see that there are other equally valid codifications possible, and indeed that none of these codifications constitutes the essence of the humanities, which lies in the performance of practomimetic rulesets. Consider this gloss on the metagame from a guide to generic builds in League of Legends , by a forum contributor named Tendresse: Meta – Short for Metagame : The game outside the game. This is the set of conventions and strategies which establish the standards of your typical League of Legends game (although the concept applies to every video game). As wikipedia puts it : “In simple terms, it is the use of out-of-game information or resources to affect one’s in-game decisions.” The meta dictates where the champions should go, what their skillset should be, and what their general actions should be. Breaking the meta is doing something that is considered non-optimal, and is thus generally frowned upon because it is assumed that following the meta is the optimal way to play the game. Do not let that deter you from trying out unorthodox strategies if you think they may yield surprisingly good results (do not go overboard, after all the meta is simply the natural evolution of the game). Consider this entry from a walkthrough to BioShock by Jason Nimer: Andrew Ryan’s Office Ryan will be playing golf (at a time like this?!) and he’ll reveal quite a bit about you, Rapture and your past. When he is finished, he’ll turn on the lights and open a door for you Boss: Andrew Ryan Ryan is quite possibly the easiest boss in the entire history of video games. After revealing a bit more about you, the game will take over and the fight will be done in a minute. No strategy, no weapons, no nothing; just the most inventive use of a golf club in recent memory. Once he is dead, you’ll grab a keycard off his body and you’ll need to place it in the self- destruct override machine. Atlas will contact you and let you in on a few shocking secrets before the door behind you opens. Follow the Little Sister into the vent and the level will end. This second passage, indeed, leads beautifully into my corollary point number three in the consideration of the Big Break of BioShock : the one about gamers not necessarily having Aha-Erlebnisse of philosophical reflection when playing the kind of games I’m suggesting invite such epiphanies. The writer of the walkthrough quoted above clearly does not agree that the moment he here describes–which is the same, crucial moment I call the Death-Disarm Sequence, the one that has the potential to break the chains of mental slavery–demands humanistic analysis. Still less would he appear to see it as a critique of mimetic interactivity itself (his silence on the subject cannot, I think, be taken as tacit agreement). What then is the status of my claim that he is nevertheless perforce engaged in humanistic inquiry like that of the prisoner released from his chains in Plato’s cave ? That’s my task next time, but I think the answer begins with this same passage, where Nimer says “Ryan is quite possibly the easiest boss in the entire history of video games.” 
3974	Yes	It has been observed that when systems break down we get to actually see how they operate. I wonder what this breakage below says about the use of Freebase and Wikipedia data in Google’s Knowlege Graph . Yes, that’s an image of Braeburn from My Little Pony to the right, and text about the apple to the left. Interestingly it’s fine at Wikipedia: And it’s not even there in Freebase (according to a search). I don’t know if this reveals what’s going on in the flow of entities between Wikipedia, Freebase and Google. But I thought it was interesting. I wonder where to report such an anomaly. Is there a place? Thanks to Jeff Godin in #code4lib for noticing the breakage in Knowledge Graph. See also Hilary Mason’s post about how her identity got mixed up on Bing. (Thanks Chris ). 
3975	Yes	One of the findings of the ACRL Digital Humanities Discussion Group’s inital survery was that respondants were interersted in an aggregation service that presented a curated selection of content from the web on digital humanities and libraries. In response to that need, dh+lib is excited to unveil its aggregator, a volunteer-driven service for highlighting and sharing the best content on digital humanities and libraries. What is it? How does it work? This content appears on the dh+lib homepage as snippets prefaced by tag distinguishing the type of content. dh+lib snippet Once we finish the dh+lib site redesign (coming soon, stay tuned!) it will be easier to tell the difference between this aggregated content and dh+lib original contributions. The snippets that appear on the dh+lib homepage are selected from the stream of content produced and shared by the dh+lib community. This stream – in the form of RSS feeds – casts a wide net and includes content produced by librarians, archivists, museum workers, faculty, information professionals and technologists, just to name a few. We currently need editors-at-large for the spring semester – sign up today ! The aggregation process relies heavily on the work of our editors-at-large, who volunteer for one-week shifts to survey the stream of content and select what should be highlighted on the dh+lib homepage. Once the editors-at-large have made their nominations, the editors (currently, Zach Coble, Sarah Potvin, and Roxanne Shirazi), make a final selection decision and post the selected content to the dh+lib homepage. Are you interested in helping dh+lib? It’s an easy way to get involved in the dh+lib community and great for staying current with conversations in DH. Editors-at-large commit to a one-week shift that involves approximately 45 minutes a day. We currently need editors-at-large for the spring semester – sign up today ! Purpose The point of this exercise is to share useful resources and build community. It is the hope of the aggregator and the dh+lib site to be both a resource for librarians and information professionals interested in DH as well as a voice for us to participate in the larger DH conversation. While we are supported by the ACRL Digital Humanities Discussion Group , there is no membership requirement and all are encouraged to participate – both librarians and those working outside libraries. We want to work with you to make the site what you want it to be. We strongly encourage you to share the content you find useful with your friends and colleagues, and to participate in the conversation. We have created individual posts for each piece of content from the aggregator to provide a space for comments and conversation, and we encourage you to take the conversation to other venues. We want to work with you to make the site what you want it to be. Similarly, we would love for you to contribute to dh+lib . We are always looking for posts on how you’re doing or trying to do DH at your library. Or perhaps you have another idea you think would be useful for the site – let us know ! Content Categories Content featured from the aggregator fall into seven categories: Recommended : These are indispensable pieces, often a blog post or article, that will be most helpful to the dh+lib community. These pieces should offer a critical analysis of the broader field of digital humanities or the role of libraries, archives, or museums in digital humanities work. Similarly, we are also looking for works of digital humanities scholarship – research that applies digital methodologies to questions in the humanities or applies critical methodologies to the relationship between the humanities and digital technology – with some consideration of libraries, archives, or museums. Digital Projects : We are interested in featuring new digital projects, both projects that focus on particular research questions and projects that bring particular collections into the digital space. Posts : These are blog posts that offer a timely analysis of current conversations. They might not fit in the Recommended category but are worth sharing with the dh+lib community. Resources : This include items such as reports, white papers, conference presentations, and lectures as well as tutorials, tools for digital research, and sources for further information on a topic within the digital humanities. Calls for Papers : We interpret “CFP” quite broadly, including calls for participation, calls for projects, and requests for feedback, in addition to more traditional calls for papers. Job Announcements : We are looking for work opportunities that are specifically focused on both digital humanities and libraries. Positions might be postdocs, #alt-ac or tenure track, and will likely be situated in libraries, archives, museums, or galleries. Funding and Opportunities : Funding and Opportunities is a catch-all category for items that are outside the scope of jobs or CFPs but that offer either learning opportunities or monetary support for digital humanities work. As many of you have probably guessed, this process is very similar to Digital Humanities Now (DHNow). In fact, DHNow is the inspiration for this project, and I owe the Editors of DHNow a huge thanks, especially Joan Troyano, for their guidance, encouragement, and sharing of workflow materials. 
3976	Yes	 Job Koelewijn‘s Mobius bookshelf My husband and I both work in a university, and we often talk about how one’s interests take shape — about how our “favorite subjects” in school come to be our favorites, about how we come to appreciate the relevance and resonance in and among particular fields, about how we ultimately decide upon our areas of specialization, etc. He told me recently about a class, then a pilot-project, that he took in high school: three history, literature, and art teachers got together and organized a two-year “history of Western thought” mega-class, which examined the interrelationships of various forms of cultural production and ways of thinking throughout several millennia. They observed how particular themes were made manifest in music and painting and literature in, say, the Renaissance; how particular historical milieux gave rise to various philosophical ideas, etc. What an amazing opportunity, especially for a high school student. We didn’t have classes like this at my school. We had football. I particularly regret how my relationship with the study of history was shaped throughout my middle- and high-school years. I never recognized history’s relevance to literature or music or math or science, all the subjects I loved . That’s probably in large part because history was framed for me as a series of events on particular dates: this major event started on this date, and ended on this date. My “mastery” of historical material was evaluated via exams loaded with matching and fill-in-the-blank questions: match the event with its year, or fill in the blank with the name of the historical figure to whom we can presumably ascribe sole responsibility for this major historical turn of events. via For two years, including my senior year in AP History, I had a teacher who came to class with a yellow legal pad blackened and warped with penciled notes. I’ll call him/her Ms. X. Ms. X had four chalkboards in her classroom: three on the front wall, one on the right-side wall. When the bell rang, she, a rather corpulent lady, would position herself before the front-left blackboard and start copying her notes — a heavily formatted outline — while adding “light” commentary. We couldn’t actually see the board, since her wide body blocked our view, so we had to wait until she moved on to Board #2 to begin our transcription. And thus began our race for the next 75 minutes — scribbling notes until our hands ached; racing to keep up with her; always, necessarily, one chalkboard behind. At any moment, a quick glance around the classroom revealed a handful of students shaking cramps out of their hands or feverishly sharpening dulled pencil-points. They approached these all-too-brief respites as one would approach a pit-stop in the Tour de France. Ms. X’s commentary never matched up with what we were writing — there was always a one-board time-lag — so we felt a jarring dissonance between what we were hearing and what our brains were telling our hands to scratch out on paper. The act of note-taking served thus not to inscribe those facts in our memories — let alone to make them come alive – but rather, as a purely physical, de-intellectualized exercise. Consequently, history, for me, was a sequence of events with clear causes and effects, definitive starting- and end-dates, easily identifiable male leaders who “made things happen.” It was painful. It was boring. It had no apparent connection to those other subjects that seemed so relevant and vibrant and inspiring . My literature and music teachers occasionally integrated short historical lessons into their classes, so we could understand the historical and cultural contexts that gave rise to Shakespeare, Bach, Faulkner, and even Andrew Lloyd Webber. But it never occurred to me that those were mini- history lessons: how could they be? They were so… interesting! I managed to disabuse myself of these notions in college — in large part because I came to realize (with the help of some fabulous teachers) that the study of literature is so greatly enriched by knowing where and when it comes from. I took quite a few history classes in graduate school. And as I immersed myself in my field amidst the rise of “new media” studies, and observed the prevalence of techno-utopian Internet theory, I started to become a bit of a curmudgeon: always doubting the new ness of these developments, always wanting to find their precursors, to historicize . And now as I begin writing my next book — after having researched the “media city” for nearly 15 years — I realize that even in its contemporaneity, it’s going to be deeply historical. And by “deep” I mean tracing connections back to the very first cities in the Middle East. That makes me a bit nervous — primarily because I wasn’t trained as a historian. Working interdisciplinarily has already made me rather susceptible to the impostor syndrome; now adding a historical dimension just ups the “poseur” quotient. In the past several years I’ve read several book reviews, written  by  historians, of   historically-oriented media, communication, and design books; in a few particularly traumatic occasions, the historians have mercilessly blasted the media scholars for the supposed shoddiness of their scholarship. One poor woman was raked over the coals for not citing a sufficient number of primary sources in her bibliography. I’ve also met a few historians who have chastised scholars in other fields for not examining their sources with a historian’s eye, for using the wrong archives, for choosing the wrong historical frame. Have I been using the wrong archives? Have I been reading these archival materials “as a historian would”? Is that necessary? Do historians get to dictate what archives mean ? Will I choose the right or wrong historical frameworks? Does doing history carry obligations that go above and beyond those of other forms of scholarly inquiry? How is sound historical scholarship different from good, old-fashioned sound scholarship ? Am I at a serious disadvantage here because I’m, historically speaking, a late bloomer? Did those high school experiences historically determine my current state of self-doubt? I have to work through these issues — or get over them – before I can trust that I know the material I’ve been living with for the past decade-and-a-half, and that I’m ready to write this book. It’s all in there. I just have to convince this internal historical censor to open the gates.   
3977	Yes	This morning, HuffPost Live hosted a discussion on gender bias in the death penalty and, surprisingly, I was one of the featured guests. As you may know the state of Texas was scheduled to execute... [[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]] 
3978	Yes	It has been observed that when systems break down we get to actually see how they operate. I wonder what this breakage below says about the use of Freebase and Wikipedia data in Google’s Knowlege Graph . Yes, that’s an image of Braeburn from My Little Pony to the right, and text about the apple to the left. Interestingly it’s fine at Wikipedia: And it’s not even there in Freebase (according to a search). I don’t know if this reveals what’s going on in the flow of entities between Wikipedia, Freebase and Google. But I thought it was interesting. I wonder where to report such an anomaly. Is there a place? Thanks to Jeff Godin in #code4lib for noticing the breakage in Knowledge Graph. See also Hilary Mason’s post about how her identity got mixed up on Bing. (Thanks Chris ). 
3979	Yes	 Photo credit: Flickr user Ed Schipul The Knight News Challenge on open government will run from Feb. 12 to March 18. It’s an opportunity to win part of the $5 million we’ll use this year to support innovative projects. We expect the News Challenge to generate proposals to improve the way citizens and governments interact. Projects could help parents evaluate schools, make weather data more usable, identify best routes from one town to another, or identify pork in the federal budget. Just as we do with “news,” we’re defining “open government” broadly. Wikipedia says it “holds that citizens have the right to access the documents and proceedings of the government to allow for effective public oversight .” The OpenGov Foundation says it’s about “making it easier for people to access and use as much government information as possible.” In their book Open Government, Daniel Lathrop and Laurel Ruma describe it even more broadly as “transparency, collaboration and participation.” One of our goals for the News Challenge is to involve more people in the use of technology to solve community problems. “Dozens of developers looking at each other in conference rooms over pizza is never going to lead to making lives better... without the active involvement of real residents expressing real needs and advocating for software that makes sense to them,” wrote Daniel O’Neil of the Smart Chicago Collaborative recently. We hope to help extend the spirit of open gov beyond those conference rooms, and to catalyze partnerships between hackers, civic innovators, governments, journalists and others. As a social investor, we feel the time is right to help advance the field. We are looking for more than just applicants for this challenge; we’re looking for participants. The challenge will open on Feb. 12 with an “inspiration” phase where anyone - journalists, state and local officials, citizens, community foundations, schools, others - can share problems they’d like to see solved and success stories they’d like to see accelerated. We hope they’ll continue to participate with their comments as applicants start submitting project entries on Feb. 19. We’ll announce the winners in June. 
3980	Yes	Chinese Propaganda Games Are Popular but Not Effective China has always viewed video games as a negative influence to society and the social order. In 2009, the Chinese Ministry of Culture banned mafia games, citing that these games embody antisocial behavior like killing, beating, and looting. China has not slowed down on its blacklisting of games, and they have even banned consoles such as the Playstation and Xbox. Contrary to what China’s past actions may infer, they have been actively investing millions of dollars to game companies in the form of grants and tax breaks. However, a new political move targeting the 120 million Chinese online gamers comes with some strings attached to these game developers. According to The Telegraph , The Communist Party is now releasing a new game later this year called Glorious Mission , but there have already been multiple games created under this political agenda. The purpose of these Communist Party funded games is to instill core values of the military in its players. One of the games created through this funding is Learning from Lei Feng  by Chinese game developer, Shanda. It was given to Shanghai’s Communist Youth League to further strengthen the moral ideologies of youth. In the game, players won points for selfless acts and living a thrifty life such as offering help when needed, rather than promoting sheer killing and bloodshed. In parts of the game, players will have to help old men cross the street while stopping people’s bad habits such as breaking traffic rules, trampling on grass, and/or yelling profanities. One of the spokespeople for Shanda stated that the creation of this game was initiated by the Party and in return, Shanda received special tax breaks. The most popular propaganda-embedded games are the series of nationalistic games based around anti-Japanese sentiment. Game developer ZQ Games have claimed that around 2-3 million players are currently online engaging with their war games. A ZQ spokesperson stated that “they are the only company developing Chinese culture-based games”. In return to their productivity for the central government, ZQ Games enjoyed 71% of their 2011 profits from grants and tax breaks. However, there have been complaints from the public youth and shareholders that these games are not balanced and cater more towards propaganda than game design. With the end goal of the Party to instill core values rather than letting its constituents derive personal enjoyment from playing games, it is not hard to believe that a fun design was not the first priority. Ironically enough, Liu Yang—a game developer—states that the games with the most amount of propaganda have had the least amount of popularity. Generation Y is not just localized to America. It is a global demographic, and the problem with the cultural propaganda China wants to implement is that they don’t stimulate youth on an intrinsic level. Generation Y is a population of highly critical thinkers, and Chinese youth want to have their own judgment and principles, free from specific government impositions. As a double whammy, anti-Japanese games such as Resistance War Online have shown that Chinese players have spent more time quarreling with each other rather than completing mission objectives. For a lesson in history, this pokes at the notion that China was a “unified” country against the Japanese. It is hard to conclude that government-funded propaganda games have been effective on the Chinese population. Rather, these implementations hint towards the hypothesis that games stripped of its intrinsic enjoyment offer little to no personal value to the gamer. It also shows that China isn’t necessarily anti-games. They only blacklist games that don’t conform to the message that China is trying to spread to maintain hierarchy and social order. Glorious Mission , the Party’s newest game, has been developed by seven Propaganda officials and overseen by the People’s Liberation Army. Time will only tell how youth gamers receive it, but we can be safely sure to say that it won’t be the same “electronic crack” like World of Warcraft — the games just aren’t good enough. --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Why China’s Propaganda Games Don’t Work appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3981	Yes	 Carlos Scheidegger and Kenny Shirley, along with Chris Volinsky, visualized Major League Baseball Hall of Fame voting , from the first class in 1936 (which included Babe Ruth) up to present. All a fan can do is accept that Baseball Hall of Fame voting, conducted by the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA), is a phenomenon unto itself. If we can't understand baseball Hall of Fame voting, though, maybe the next best thing is visualizing the data behind it. The set of interactive plots on this webpage is our attempt to do that. We were especially interested in two things: (1) viewing the trajectories of BBWAA vote percentage by year for different players throughout history, and (2) simultaneously viewing the career statistics of these players, to help find patterns and explain their trajectories (or to reassure ourselves that the writers really are crazy). The interactive is on the analysis side of the spectrum, so you might be a bit lost if you don't know a lick about baseball. However, if your're a baseball fan, there's a lot to play around with and dimensions to poke around at, as you can filter on pretty much all player stats such as home run count, batting average, and innings played. At the very least, you're getting a peek at how statisticians pick and prod at their data. Start at the examples section for quick direction. I eventually found myself looking for downward trajectories. Poor Mark McGwire. [Thanks, Chris] 
3982	Yes	"Retournement" by Philippe Bootz : This kinetic poem is documented as a video recording of its performance, which would require emulation to run correctly on contemporary computers, now 20 years removed from its original computational environments. Its aesthetics are fitting with other works produced by the French digital poetry group L.A.I.R.E. (Lecture, Art, Innovation, Recherche, Écriture) in the late 1980s and pre-WWW years. The poem’s simple design and use of graphical elements shouldn’t be confused with simplicity of expression. Au contraire , its minimalist use of animation, changing color, and scheduled textual delivery are used as writing. The title itself is an indicator of the poem’s strategies, as it takes a phrase, inverts its syntax to form another, transforming its textual and graphic elements more than once to write more lines over time than the sum total of written lines. Keeping this in mind, use the subtitles as a source of translation of its words, but not necessarily as an accurate depiction of what can be read at a given moment. 
3983	Yes	But former Facebook and Twitter product guy Josh Elman makes a good point in What is “Growth Hacking” really? ? “you do need to find the right “hacks” that help you get to those points of sustainable growth. LinkedIn started with Reid Hoffman inviting his entire professional network to join him, Facebook started expanding college-by-college waiting until they had a 20%+ of the student body to open at each place, and AirBnb got early supply and demand by cross-posting on Craigslist. While these were all great starts, it wasn’t until each company had more sustainable viral loops and SEO conversion working that they really started taking off.” FYI: I’m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post Growth hacking may not be the best term… appeared first on Bokardo . 
3984	Yes	by Sean Michael Morris and Jesse Stommel This Friday, February 1 from 1:00 - 2:00pm Eastern (10:00 - 11:00am Pacific), Hybrid Pedagogy will host a Twitter discussion under the hashtag #digped to discuss student involvement in teaching, learning, and pedagogy. If you’re an educator, please invite your students to participate. The Bill of Rights and Principles for Learning in the Digital Age was published on January 22, 2013. The document, a collaboration between twelve educators, proposes on its surface 9 rights and 10 principles that affect students and their work in any learning environment, with an eye toward those which are hybrid or online. The document has generated a great deal of discussion about its context, but little about its implication: namely, students are so integral to the process of education that how we conceive the institution and the practice must evolve. As educators, our work is not to better understand and defend our own positions, but to abdicate those positions in meaningful, thoughtful ways. 
3985	Yes	As I’ve been furiously writing and editing my dissertation to make an end of quarter deadline, one of the major elements of my project that has kept me focused is the distinction made between the three levels of spiritual warfare advocated and practiced by third wave evangelicals (or neo-charismatics). It clarifies my work because unlike others who have recently written about demons–say Michael W. Cueno’s American Exorcism –I can always remind myself that my focus is only a a fraction of the picture. Here’s the basic spiritual warfare breakdown. This version is taken from Peter Wagner’s 1997  Praying With Power , but there are many other near-identical versions of it in the spiritual warfare literature: Ground-level spiritual warfare confronts demonic spirits that molest individuals. This is personal deliverance: casting out demons. Occult-level spiritual warfare expose s organized forces of darkness such as witchcraft, shamanism, satanism, Freemasonry, Eastern religions, New Age and the like. Strategic-level spiritual warfare involves wrestling with principalities and powers and rulers of the darkness as Paul defines in Ephesians 6:12 There are many, many works on ground-level spiritual warfare. It’s also a great source of inspiration for Hollywood horror films. The fascination with personal deliverance has left its pentecostal and Catholic quarters for the wider waters of popular culture. I don’t know that it was a great move–it’s surely resulted in an explosion of pseudo-science and pseudo-religion–but it has been profitable and popular. Occult-level spiritual warfare is less well studied and less frequently practiced. Evangelicals (and Catholics) have long waged a war against non-Christian religious traditions. The most threatening of these are traditions that can be practiced alongside Christianity. A recent example would be the treatment of yoga in schools, but many others fit this billing. Some of these traditions are openly anti-Christian, but most are dangerous simply because they are not Christianity. It doesn’t have to be much more complex than that, but for occult-level warfare these traditions are seen, unrepentantly, as the domain of Satan. Good intentions mean nothing here, this is a hard and fast line being drawn. Strategic-level spiritual warfare (or SLSW) is, pardon the theory-talk, a structuring structure. In a significant way, it is framework for the other forms of spiritual warfare. SLSW says that the forces of darkness are organized and hierarchical. This corporate evil is the means by which smaller units of organized darkness (occult-level) multiply. Sure, you can fight the New Age bookstore. The problem is that you’ve only dislocated and disrupted the middlemen. In a drug-metaphor, ground-level warfare attacks junkies, occult-level attacks local dealers, and strategic-level confronts the cartels. Why bother harassing every junkie if the drugs will continue to flow downstream to other users? The work I do with SLSW is trying to explain, practice-wise, why this form of spiritual warfare is so concerned with the world in spatial ways. A colleague, Sean McCloud , is writing a whole book about the first level of spiritual warfare. His work will deal considerably with the therapeutic and materialistic qualities of this level of warfare. Those elements are present in SLSW but significantly diminished because of the way this ‘umbrella’ level of warfare sees its first priority as participating in a cosmic battle between Satan and God. Remembering the three levels of warfare keeps me focused because I know I don’t need to say everything about spiritual warfare. There is no book, yet, that successfully explains why all three of these levels of warfare are necessary and how they work and why they are all coming together in the 1980s. Pieces of the story are clear: deliverance ministry has a long history in American pentecostalism. After a brief hiatus around WWII, exorcisms came back into fashion in the 1960s and then exploded in popularity in the 1970s after popular culture picked up on the practice and sensationalized it. But the pieces of the story that explain occult warfare? Very murky. The pieces of the story that explain spatial and territorial demonology that is at the heart of SLSW? Almost absent. I’m working on it, but I’m also thankful I don’t have to account for everything just yet. Related articles Warfare in the 1980s (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) Power Evangelicals: Growing Trend or Passing Fancy? (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) Contested Missionary and Historical Paradigms (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) George Otis, Jr., Giant? (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) Studying the Controversy: Territorial Demonology (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) Mapping Spiritual Mapping (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) Filed under: academic reflection , American Religous History , Dissertation Research , Evangelical , Popular Culture , Religion and Culture , Religion and Film , Religious Studies 
3986	Yes	 Hey, readers! I’ve been using the computer far less than usual this past month, but it’s time to get back on the blogging saddle. Quasiweekly digital-dissertation posts should recommence next week. I wanted to use this blog more actively this past year–during October and November in particular, I wanted to publish something at least once a week–and I met my goal, with 45 total posts during 2012. According to Jetpack and Google Analytics stats, this blog got around 5,000 views (mostly in the last six months, when I started blogging regularly), with about a quarter of those views being returning visitors (hey!). Readers came from 77 countries. The site had 174 visits on its busiest day, October 25th, with most of those going to my “Five Tips for Getting Started on a Digital Humanities Dissertation” post. Top search terms leading people to my blog were variants of “literature geek”/”what is a literature geek?”, with “linati schema” oddly in third place (with 15 searchers ending up on my blog; I hope they were pleased with this post on “Anachronistic Linati Schema” ). These search terms were followed closely in frequency by terms I discussed in my digital humanities/textual studies reading journal (e.g. Speclab, McGann, Drucker) and my textual visualization work with Gephi . On the lower end of search frequency, one hopes those who ended up here after searching for “ snowball rolling ” and “ angry bird studying ” found something else of interest… Interested in running your own stats? I briefly discuss running stats on your blogs/online projects in my Quick amp; Dirty DH User Testing post , and I’ll write up a tutorial on how to create custom Google Analytics reports at some point this year. 
3987	Yes	 A few quick thoughts on Vine . Mostly positive. Yes, I know I’m supposed to be posting a 6 second vine video instead of writing this. Well, I’ve made 20 or so none of them have been posted. I haven’t quite got my head around an approach, and cats and breakfast cereal are well covered.  The short form is not an issue. I remember thinking 12 seconds was a very long time after making a series of videos for a 12seconds.tv film festival when it was active. In fact, I ended up making micro 3 act structures, each 4 seconds long. I also curated and participated in early mobile video exhibitions where the videos were 15 seconds each. I just looped things to fill out the time. So 6 seconds is plenty.  One of the things I like the most about Vine being integrated directly within twitter is that is begins to compensate for the text centric nature of the platform.  I prefer to express myself publicly with image/sound first, then text. This has not been an easy thing to do with social media to date, and is partly why I’ve deleted well over half of my tweets almost immediately after publishing them (and partly why we made Undetweetable which collected deleted tweets). This text-nervousness is compounded by being uncomfortable with the casualness of social media posts in the first place. With image/sound posts some of us may be able to express ourselves with less anxiety. (I often find the best response to something is an untranslatable gesture, sound or color). Then again, it may just create another kind of anxiety. On Twitter there’s generally an expectation that things should make linear sense , because they are text and links and quotes. Of course they don’t have to (hence my 2010  ThroatOcean account). This is already the case with Vine in that certain visual conventions have become cliche’s which are contextual frames for making videos quickly digestible.  The obvious thing to do is time lapse, or some kind of time shifting, which usually emphasizes speed (or visual efficiency as Nathan Jurgensen recently called it ) and there are a number of these at the top of the Vine selected favorites. But there are other ways to use Vine that are between the extremes of meticulous stop motion and a careless shaky six second video of whatever happens to be in front of you .  One of the first things I thought would be interesting is to try and give the illusion of stretching time, making it seem slow, much longer than 6 seconds. Or video only accounts, or days where only videos are posted in sequence. Or just sound. It will also be interesting to see how it’s used in breaking news events - and if anyone manages to create fake vines during such events.  Speaking of sound , it’s something having audio integrated into twitter, but it’s not much. It will have to mostly be voices and low resolution mid frequency sounds. As I’ve complained many times before, default audio recording and playback on mobile devices is far behind video. Sound in online video is often merely accidental.  Technically, what would be helpful is to be able to save the videos as a draft while in process, to be able to make the time shifts very long while making other videos in the meantime. Then again, having to finish the video before making another one can be considered part of the constraints, reminiscent of long sequences in Robert Rodriguez’s first film El Mariachi. Also, as the software stands now, it’s pretty hard to do.  Vine could provide an opportunity for a more visual twitter that’s different from Instagram or Tumblr and the tired, over fetishized history of animated gifs. I’ll resist it, bit most posts will be casual (which is often for the benefit of platform owners, not necessarily the users). On the positive side, Vine may open another door for visual signature and the performance of identity . Or it could be just cats and breakfast. 
3988	Yes	 Here’s a story that slaps you in the face. An eighth grader is working on a school paper and using Internet-based resources to presumably do some of his research. Good so far, right?  Unfortunately the Wall Street Journal article, “The Web-Deprived Study at McDonald’s ,” takes a hard turn and shows us the student’s Internet options mostly run out after his local public library closes. Why is Joshua, the eighth grader, doing homework at a fast-food restaurant, and how could this situation be improved? We can all agree that there should be more options for Joshua and his fellow students. It’s a painful reality to accept that some students have to go to a restaurant or café to finish an assignment – particularly since more than 40 percent of library patrons use technology to pursue educational activities, including homework help and online classes. Even though the Cintronelle (Ala.) Memorial Library has nearly tripled the number of computers available and is open 30 hours per week, more is needed. In rural areas 70 percent of libraries are the only provider of free public computers and Internet access – something that is critical when many students not only have no home Internet but may lack a laptop, using a mobile device to access the online world. In 2012, 89 percent of the nation’s nearly 17,000 public libraries provided Wi-Fi access, and about three-quarters of these reported an increase in the use of their Wi-Fi. Since most of these libraries keep their Wi-Fi signal on after hours, we are very familiar with the “parking lot” uses of people who don’t have other Internet access options. Today, nearly all libraries provide public access computers staffed with knowledgeable librarians who, in many instances, work closely with school librarians and classroom teachers to make sure their resources and databases complement the ones in the K12 schools. These librarians, school and public, can help Joshua locate the very best resources, teach him how to evaluate online information, and guide him to collaborative production tools to compose high-quality papers. While computer and Internet access are an essential starting point, trained staff and relevant resources are also vital. Unfortunately, because of the economic downturn affecting so many families and causing some to discontinue Internet access, public libraries also are feeling the stress. This past year, 57 percent of public libraries reported they had flat or reduced operating budgets, and in the previous year 23 states, including Joshua’s, reported cuts in state funding. Although public libraries may want to increase hours, upgrade Internet speeds, add computers, provide mobile services and serve as community Wi-Fi hotspots, they face significant challenges. If you only consider library infrastructure, many public libraries depend on E-rate discounts to take care of the recurring costs for Internet access. E-rate is one of the Universal Service Fund buckets and provides schools and libraries with discounts on telecommunications and the internal connections necessary to put those services to work. Libraries (and schools) receive discounts for Internet connections based on need and a somewhat complicated application process. Even with these discounts, many libraries find themselves strapped in paying the non-discounted portion and struggle to maintain or improve their technology. In 2012, we see for the first time that the demand for E-rate funding for Internet and telecommunications services alone claimed all of the available funds and it was only through carefully structuring the available funds that the neediest of applicants could receive support for internal connections. The way the E-rate fund has been maxed out (it has a cap around $2.25 billion adjusted annually for inflation) in recent years, not very many public libraries and generally the poorest schools are receiving discounts for the internal connections required to bring the Internet from the building entry point to the public computers. In Idaho, for example, no libraries have received such funding since 1999, a year or so after the program started. Clearly the inflation adjustment which only brings the amount of E-rate dollars available to both schools and libraries to about 3 percent more than it was in 1998 when the fund size was established is not enough and must be further increased. So what’s the answer? There are many shorter and longer-term possibilities. Maybe local government officials should make funding library technology a higher priority to support their future workers. Maybe school administrators and school boards should commit to supporting extended school library hours staffed by librarians. Maybe there should be more pressure on Internet providers to make their broadband more affordable for families, as well as institutions such as libraries. Maybe there should be more pressure from the federal government to push telecommunications providers into rural areas where it’s difficult to make a business case for trenching fiber. Maybe government agencies should provide funding for programs that bring technology, resources, and trained staff into neighborhoods where resources are lacking such as Philadelphia’s KEYSPOT program. Maybe foundations and corporate philanthropic institutions should increase their interest in funding local initiatives that create enticing after-school opportunities for our K12 students such as those in libraries that are modeled on Chicago’s very successful YOUmedia program or create opportunities to bring Wi-Fi into needy neighborhoods like the Free Library of Philadelphia and its Techmobile . A book isn’t enough to meet the current research and educational needs of our students and broader community. Libraries are part of the solution, and we need more and better support for public, school and college libraries to support learning beyond the classroom with other community partners. Our students should not have to order fries as part of their homework assignments. We all need to step it up so this story has a better sequel. The post Where we are failing our kids appeared first on District Dispatch . 
3989	Yes	Jesse Redniss, the Second Screen Expert Its amazing that the sole act of watching TV has been replaced with watching TV while on your phone/laptop/tablet. And thus the concept of the “second screen” is born. We’ve become such distracted and consumption driven individuals that no one medium of entertainment is enough for our brains. While this may sound like a negative thing at first, nobody really understood the inherent synergy that exists between these two devices if they’re being used to consume the same media together. That is…until Jesse Redniss saw this opportunity and became one of the earliest pioneers of gamification for television media. Club Psych, SuitsRecruits, and even the Latin Billboard Awards have seen tremendous success with engaging consumers with using the second screen in conjunction with gamification and social media. You can even see these levels in engagement from Jesse’s presentation from GSummit 2012. Jesse Redniss and Peter Blacker – “Making the Second Screen Work: The Gamification of TV and Big Media”   But this is old news now. In fact, Jessie’s previous work as a digital supervisor for Atari and Midway, his work in the music industry at Volatile Media and Sony, and his work in numerous leading advertising agencies can all be considered old news now. But only because Jesse has refined these second screen engagement techniques and taken them to the next level. Come see Jesse’s new most current findings on the future of television by attending his talk at GSummit SF 2013 . His work at USA Network/NBCU is easily setting the new standard for digital media and Jesse will  shares his insights, challenges and keys to success for their blockbuster fan engagement programs. Did I mention that Jesse has these three mystery facts about him too? Try and guess which one is false:  Jesse is credited as an Engineer on Rakim’s Buffalo Gals (Back to Skool) Remix A competitve sailor, Redniss was recruited to Hobart College to join the Sailing team which was the #1 ranked school in the nation at that time Having attended Le Cordon Bleu NYC, Redniss is a certified gourmet chef. Be sure to catch Jesse and much more consumer engagement techniques at GSummit SF 2013 . --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Prominent Gamifiers: Jesse Redniss appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3990	Yes	 Big data is watching, by heloukee, on Flickr I had the opportunity today to talk at the Big Data and Big Challenges for Law and Legal Information symposium at the Georgetown University Law Center. The event marked the 125th anniversary of the University Law Library. My panel was on Big Data Applications in Scholarship and Policy, and I was pleased to present with a distinguished group of scholars and jurists. I presented my personal overview of submissions in response to the November 2011 White House Request for Information: Public Access to Digital Data Resulting From Federally Funded Scientific Research. The RFI is described as an Opportunity for interested individuals and organizations to provide recommendations on approaches for ensuring long-term stewardship and encouraging broad public access to unclassified digital data that result from federally funded scientific research. The public input provided through this Notice will inform deliberations… [about] steps that can be taken by Federal agencies to encourage and coordinate the development of agency policies and standards to promote long-term preservation of and access to digital data resulting from federally funded scientific research. The responses are posted on the Office of Science and Technology website, and provide a snapshot of current thinking on data stewardship from the perspective of different stakeholders. The 118 individual responses, which total over 600 pages, make up an excellent (if unstructured) data set. Respondents were diverse: 50 percent from academic research departments, professional organizations 35 percent from libraries, repositories and allied organizations 10 percent from publishers and commercial organizations   5 percent other I was struck by the degree to which the respondents were in agreement on recommendations in support of: Agency data preservation mandates Requirements to promote secondary data use Resources to support data management across the data life cycle Efforts to extend a collaborative national data management infrastructure Most commenters were enthusiastic in calling for what I characterize as “respect for data.” There were common calls for giving equal credit for publishing data sets as for publishing summary research findings, as well as for developing robust metrics to track data publication and use. A number of submissions suggested that criteria for evaluating grant applications should explicitly include data management, both during and after proposed projects. There were other areas in which opinions diverged markedly, including thoughts on the role of guidelines for intellectual property and personal privacy. But it is fair to say the submissions reflect a degree of  consensus among data producers, users and keepers about what is needed to address big data stewardship going forward.   
3991	Yes	 Today, American Library Association (ALA) President Maureen Sullivan joined Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, along with twelve government agencies and organizations, to sign the “Declaration of Learning,” a statement that formally announces their partnership as members of the Inter-Agency Collaboration on Learning. Signed on the Treaty of Paris Desk at the Department of State Headquarters, the declaration recognizes participating institutions for their commitment to use historic artifacts in their collections to create digital learning tools for students and educators. Sec. Clinton with IMLS’ Susan Hildreth and Maureen Sullivan “As a representative of libraries that are using cutting-edge digital learning tools to teach students and patrons the skills that they need to succeed, I am pleased to take part in this critical partnership,” said Sullivan. “The Declaration of Learning helps to ensure that library patrons have access to digital learning resources from the historic Diplomatic Reception Rooms.” Additionally, the signing ceremony honors Secretary Clinton for her role in the completion of the “Patrons of Diplomacy” initiative, which established the first permanent endowment for the Diplomatic Reception Rooms and the funding to launch education programs to share the Rooms and their objects with people around the world. Susan Hildreth, director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services signed the declaration, along with David Ferriero, archivist of the United States. Other institutions participating in the Inter-Agency Collaboration on Education include: Library of Congress National Park Service Smithsonian Institutions National Endowment for the Humanities National Endowment for the Arts, Newseum National Center for Literacy Education National Council of Teachers of English National Council for the Social Studies Diplomatic Reception Rooms at the U.S. Department of State View the full Declaration of Learning . Learn more at www.state.gov The post ALA President, Secretary Hillary Clinton Sign “Declaration of Learning” appeared first on District Dispatch . 
3992	Yes	Last year we hosted a film team at the Washington State Archives. They made three films about our work. Here is the first--I am really pleased with how it came out. 
3993	Yes	Brief: I published an article. But before all that, I negotiated my publication contract and had a really great experience doing so. This is the story.  Journal of Library Administration. Special Issue: Digitial Humanities in Libraries – New Models For Scholarly Engagement.  Versions of Scholarly Record available at - http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/wjla20/current alt/OA Table of Contents (Links to [...] 
3994	Yes	Badgeville’s Growth Shows the Power of Gamification Yesterday, Badgeville announced that 2012 marked the company’s second consecutive year of triple-digit revenue growth. They also reported on some of their new partnerships, which include Deloitte, Oracle, Rogers, Samsung, Bell Media, Citrix, Autodesk, Panera Bread, EMC, Marketo, CA Technologies, NBC, Universal Music, Barnes amp; Noble, Danone, Aamp;N Media and Microsoft. How’s that for a list of prominent companies using gamification? Badgeville also attributed their success to growth in three specific areas of the gamification market: 1. Customer-Facing Gamification in B2C and B2B “Badgeville helped hundreds of Chief Marketing Officers improve key metrics 20 to 300 percent across their acquisition, engagement, social sharing, commerce and revenue, loyalty and churn reduction goals. From B2C programs such as Samsung, Bell Media and sneakpeeq, to B2B programs like CA Technologies, Marketo and EMC, Badgeville provided real business results for the world’s leading marketers.” 2. Employee-Facing (B2E) Gamification Programs “Badgeville helped hundreds of “line of business,” as well as CIOs and CTOs, drive employee productivity, performance and compliance, as well as business process optimization across hundreds of enterprise applications and systems. In 2012, Badgeville was integrated within CRM, LMS, HCM, Social, Collaboration, CMS, ERP, Help Desk and other enterprise applications. For example, one of the five largest companies in the world deployed Badgeville to improve utilization of critical social, document management and collaboration functionality inside their Microsoft Sharepoint environment.” 3. The Global Gamification Ecosystem “The largest companies in the world, as well as the service and technology providers that serve them, have taken notice of the business impacts gamification drives. With Badgeville, some of the largest SI and advisory firms in the industry, like Capgemini and Deloitte, have implemented powerful gamification technology and digital business transformation practices. Innovative agencies such as Perficient and EuroRSCG are bringing Badgeville-powered gamification solutions to their clients as a mission-critical part of customer and employee-facing engagement and loyalty going forward. Some of the leading technology companies in the world including Oracle, Callidus and Saba have deployed Badgeville technology to drive differentiation and value in their core go-to-market software offerings.” Badgeville’s strong success and growth across all parameters is indicative of the momentum gamification continues to build. While there are some naysayers following gamification in its hype cycle , gamification successes are relient on effective implementation and good design. Badgeville is certainly doing something right. Image by  Nicholas_T --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Industrial Strength: Badgeville Showed Triple-Digit Growth in 2012 appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3995	Yes	Free gamification webinars for marketing and HR professionals If you’re still unsure of what gamification is or how it could help you in marketing or human resources, Gabe Zichermann will be providing two free expert gamification webinars to show you why gamification works for marketing  and  HR  on February 5th and 6th, 2013. On February 5th, Gabe Zichermann will be covering  a webinar about gamification in HR , specifically covering, recruiting, retaining and training the best employees. On the 6th, Gabe will shift his focus to a marketing webinar about  Why and How Gamification Works: The Science of Consumer Engagement.  This is a fantastic opportunity to learn how gamification’s engagement practices and principles can completely change your business and keep it up to speed with this upcoming generations of professionals. You can expect to learn: How gamification works — and doesn’t Examples of the best and worst gamified approaches Key gamified strategies that you can use to improve your Strategic Human Resources approach Essential strategies that you can use to dominate your market How to address the game-centric Millennial generation The webinars are happening in one week and will have  limited space for attendees so be sure to sign up now! Learn more about the marketing webinar and HR webinars over at GSummit.com --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Join Gabe Zichermann for a Free HR/Marketing Gamification Webinar appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3996	Yes	Legendary Designer Jesse Schell! Starting next week, the Gamification Revolution , the only live gamification webcast featuring Gabe Zichermann and fellow gamification experts will be at a new time every Thursday instead of the previous Monday. You can now catch the Gamification Revolution every Thursday at 1PM EST/10 AM PST/1800 GMT. If you missed this week’s episode, we had the venerable designer and GSummit SF 2013 speaker, Jesse Schell of Schell Games. Watch Gabe’s discussion with Jesse to learn about how making engaging game experiences is the same process for designing any product: Be sure to catch our next episode of the Gamification Revolution , airing live on Februrary 7, 1 PM EST. You can also catch Jesse express his expertise in person by catching his session at GSummit SF 2013 --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Gabe’s Gamification Revolution Special Featuring Jesse Schell appeared first on Gamification Co . 
3997	Yes	 “ I do not have and I do not need material things. My material world is extremely small and limited. I own one single suit that I’m wearing right now and in the last 25 years I’ve never had another suit. And the shoes that I’m wearing I’ve been wearing for 3 years and they are my only pair of shoes. I need to replace them because they are starting to come apart. I don’t need 20 pairs of shoes. I have a car that I’ve had for 12 years. It’s fine, I enjoy life and things are very basic. I don’t have social networks in the Internet for example. I don’t even have a cell phone. I’m probably the last to holdout. I just don’t want to be available all the time. I love to connect with people but in a more fundamental way. I never go to parties, but I invite friends and I cook for them. ” — Werner Herzog Filed under: quotes Tagged: minimalism , Werner Herzog 
3998	Yes	I am a documentation fanatic. The way some people get all excited about how code isn’t finished until there are tests (which I agree with generally): I think code isn’t finished until there are docs, and until you’ve updated the docs to match your changes. It’s just not usable by other developers (including future you) unless there are docs — both inline docs, including of the sort that can be autogenerated into api docs with javadoc or rdoc ; and also often there is need for some narrative overview architectural docs too. Now, github is a great place to host a project. And the way github renders markdown as html makes it pretty great for viewing docs too. I like the way github’s project landing page is a source tree and a README. That’s exactly right, I don’t want the source tree hidden, because when I’m investigating someone elses project, or when I’m trying to figure something out about a project i’m already using, I want to be able  to navigate and view the source in a web browser very quickly. YES, the source is important documentation in itself, but seldom is sufficient documentation on it’s own. Usually you at  least need a README. And then github gives you the README right below. Markdown readme rendered into HTML, so easy on the eyes on the brain. Great, perfect! And then in some projects, the README keeps growing…. and growing… and growing. And you might think, gee, why not move some of this to some other files, if a source code file shouldn’t be 1000 lines long, a README prob shouldn’t be either. The problem was that github did not support relative hyperlinks in README and other rendered markdown/markup.  So you couldn’t link out from the README to another file in your source, in a context-specific way. Sure, you could link out to your wiki — but wiki isn’t versioned along with source code, and you want to link to the version of the docs that go along with the exact snapshot of the source repo you’re looking at. Sure, you could link out using  absolute URL hyperlinks — but same problem, you’re always linking to master, when you want to link to the file in the same snapshot the reader is looking at the README in. You might think relative links would ‘just work’. They kind of do with hyperlinks in generated rdoc/markdown you generate on your local machine. But because of the way github’s infrastructure works, the relative path between a README and the rest of the source tree changes depending on whether you’re looking at project landing page, a branch tip, a tag, or a SHA hash snapshot. So they didn’t. But, finally, github fixed things so relative links work. Hooray.  So, yeah, you can split out your docs into multiple files in `./docs/whatever.md`.  And have those links work whether you’re viewing in github, or in generated rdoc on rubydocs.org, or generated rdoc on your local machine, or anywhere. The other huge benefit this has is that you can link from a README to a  source file now too.  When discussing a class, you can  link to the source of the class. When providing an overview of a feature that’s covered in more depth in inline rdoc/javasdoc docs, you can  link to it.  Helping you avoid duplication of documentation between source files and doc files (DRY is just as important in docs as in source, for the same reasons), and integrating your documentation files and your source control. This is going to make it so much more efficient to maintain good docs for projects hosted on github, and to maintain docs that are properly snapshotted with the source snapshot they refer to, instead of wiki docs where you never can tell what version of the source they refer to (last release? master?). Hooray. ndushay says “I am not your mother. Write your test code.”  I say, I ain’t your daddy either,  write your documentation.     ((My next github doc fantasy? The syntax highlighter for ruby could realize when there was embedded markdown/rdoc in top-of-class and top-of-method comments, and render them formatted) Filed under: General 
3999	Yes	In the decade since the Budapest Open Access Initiative declared a new public good, there have been many expositions of the advantage and inevitability of Open Access and its consequences for new modes of scientific enquiry. Tony Hey (who has just claim to #39;first cause#39; of UK open access in his position of Head of Electronics and Computer Science at the University of Southampton)  has recently started a series of blog posts  A Journey to Open Access  that gives a very accessible introduction to the topic. Stevan Harnad (who was given a chair in ECS by the same Tony Hey) also blogs extensively at  Open Access Archivangelism. In my lesser role of championing repositories and developing the capabilities of the EPrints platform, I have had the privilege of working with library and information professionals to try to explain the principles of Open Access to a broad range of academics and researchers, and I have been struck by the almost total lack of understanding of the UK scholarly communication infrastructure shown by my research colleagues. To help those who have been too busy writing papers to appreciate how those papers appear and now find themselves über-confused and offended by the Finch regime, I offer the following diagram as an introduction to Everything You Need To Know on the topic. Forget the dissemination of papers and the transfer of knowledge that form the scholarly publishing cycle, this is all about influence and power. Publishing companies have pushed governments towards Gold Open Access (more money for publishers) and pulled universities away from Green Open Access (no-cost parallel dissemination).  Researchers themselves have sided with publishing companies and learned societies (who act like sub-branches of publishing companies) to try to maintain the stability of the publishing industry, irrespective of the health of the university sector on which it depends! Consequently, we now have a government proposal (the Finch report) to pay publishers twice! Once to make UK research open access whilst still retaining subscription access to the non-UK material. It#39;s a kind of Westminster Open Access Initiative stating that an  old tradition of scholarly publishing and a new technology of the Web have converged to make possible an unprecedented injection of public cash for publishers .  The only reasonable way forward is for researchers to take the initiative, and to show the kind of academic leadership that Professors Hey and Harnad demonstrated a decade ago - to start being proactive in their own scholarly communications. The easiest way to do that is to start using the existing repository infrastructure provided by their universities and supported by their libraries.  Researchers already hold all the cards, they don't need to be held to ransom in this Finchian standoff. They are the producers and consumers and quality control agents that create every aspect of the literature, they are also the community that defines its own criteria for professional advancement and assessment. Everything they think that they depend on the publishing industry for, they can actually achieve for themselves. 
4000	Yes	 Project Aims to Bring PLoS-Style Openness to the Humanities, http://t.co/IL1I5MbX E-Books for Sale! Or Did You Say License?, http://t.co/IyJTEMhr Easier Access to PLoS Data, http://t.co/husUGosA US DOJ Asks for Extension to File Amicus Brief in Cambridge v. GSU (Jan. 30, #39;13), http://t.co/hmdZmycs New Zealand Tribunal Issues First Graduated Response Decision, http://t.co/iwKHsGfu | Digital Scholarship | The post Current News: Twitter Updates for 1/30/2013 appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4001	Yes	 By Glenn McKnight The Foundation for Building Sustainable Communities (FBSC) has launched its own War of 1812 commemoration project in Oshawa, sponsored in part by the Government of Canada with a combination of tried and true presentations and displays along with some added “muscle enhancers.” FBSC is known for its Oshawa Remembers audio recordings of World War Two and Korean War veteran stories, and the re-creation of Victory Gardens .  Each of these projects demonstrates how local history is a community asset and a cornerstone of any sustainable community. The sharing of the stories for free is a central tenet of the projects.  They are part of the digital commons that bind our community through the generations. Our current projects include the War of 1812 Oshawa Project and the Korean War Comic Book. Both projects use creative methodologies to reach new audiences in order to turn them on to lessons learned from appreciating history, especially people with a limited attention span. Each of the technologies implemented is a result of collaboration amongst and between various groups who share the same vision. CMS Website The choice of WordPress was an easy pill to swallow given the availability of widgets and plugins that permit a wide range of tools to enhance the website. One of Canada’s premium WordPress designers, Digital Deceptions, created the look and feel of the site and this gritty look adds to the edgy approach to the war. This site is designed to be content-rich with video, pictures, slideshows and more. Mobile Applications The creation of iPhone, iPad and Android mobile applications for the War of 1812 Oshawa, Historical Geocaching and the Victory Gardens are all free and available from the iTunes and the Google Play websites for people to download on their smartphones. These apps are free for anyone with an iTunes account or from the Google Marketplace. Historical Geocaching We have created five Historical Geocaches over a nine kilometre stretch that includes: Buried Treasure, Henry House, Attack on Oshawa Harbour, American POW Camp and Moode Farewell’s Tavern — all which were location-based and historical significant points on the map. Each location has a hidden cache located by a GPS or Smartphone that uses a Geocaching application. More details can be found at: http://1812waroshawa.com/geocaching/ Augmented Reality The creation of mailcards and posters for all the local stories have the ability to have embedded video content. When the image is scanned by a smartphone with free LAYAR software, the print material comes alive. A good demonstration of the tool is at our launch: http://1812waroshawa.com/augmented-reality/ Korean War Comic Book A collaboration with Imperial Arts Productions has researched and created the first chapter of the Korean War comic book based upon the local stories of Korean War veterans. Shawn Martins and Ken Morgan are the creators and artists for the project. The inspiration for the project comes from a former Korean veteran who saw a real need to have illustrative tools to reach children and youth during school presentations about the war. The comic book design goes beyond the standard comic book by utilizing Augmented Reality and a software called LAYAR.  The reader will notice that specific panels will contain a  LAYAR logo.  When this appears the reader can scan the page with their smartphone with the appropriate LAYAR software application, and they will be able to view a short video of a veteran speaking about their experience as detailed in the comic book.  Old radio or newsreels can also be embedded into the comic book using this technology, which enhances the end user experience. To hear about some of the stories that go with the technologies, you can listen to an interview with Glenn McKnight and Bob Bell on Sean Graham’s History Slam podcast . Glenn McKnight is a member of the Foundation for Building Sustainable Communities (FBSC), an Oshawa-based not-for-profit.  Its newest initiative is “Rediscovery of Oshawa’s Past: Sharing of War of 1812 Stories.” FBSC is a proud recipient of the Heritage Canada Commemorative Fund, which is sponsoring various projects across Canada to help Canadians learn the significance of the War of 1812. 
4002	Yes	Dear Heptanesia.net readers, My lectureship has taken a toll on me, and I won’t be blogging that often anymore. I know this may be disheartening for some of you but I have got to put things in order. Writing is … Continue reading → 
4003	Yes	 Last weekend I saw a few vastly different exhibitions that ended up resonating in really striking and unexpected ways. I started off at the Grolier Club , a private club for bibliophiles, to see “ Rooms of Wonder: From Wunderkammer to Museum, 1599 – 1899, ” which uses a selection of beautifully illustrated rare books and ephemera to tell the history of the modern museum. Check out the crying skeleton on the right! Like the wunderkammern themselves, with their odd juxtapositions of objects — shells and skeletons, tools and botanicals, and the occasional stuffed crocodile — the exhibition packages together myriad themes — conspicuous consumption and the ideologies of collection, philosophies of classification and epistemology, the nature of objects, Foucault’s tabula and the “orders of things,” etc. — that merit close examination. Roberta Smith’s review in the  Times takes up several of those themes. (Interestingly, Rosemarie Trockel , whose exhibition I caught at the New Museum two weeks ago, just before it closed, played with similar ideas of museological convention and display.) My stealth photo of Rosemarie Trockel’s “Cosmos” I wandered upstairs at “the Club” and happened upon another small exhibition, “Through a Glass Clearly: The History amp; Science of the Microscope.” Already I felt an intellectual thread tying me to the show downstairs: the microscope and the wunderkammer both represent ways of observing, analyzing, and classifying the natural world. Both are what we might call “epistemic frames.” What a coincidence, then, that the first gallery I entered an hour later, at PS1, presented me with the following vision. No, I’m not the greatest photographer — but this isn’t simply an out-of-focus photo: it’s one of Jeff Elrod’s hallucinatory paintings, based on drawings “processed” into an incoherent blur. I t feels like we’re looking through an unfocused microscope. Jeff Elrod Speaking of blur and incoherence: Metahaven — who drew me to PS1 in the first place — aim to brand (and, in the process, critique the entire conceit of branding) often incoherent entities and concepts, like statehood and information networks. They’ve done some fantastic work on “ the cloud ,” which they render as something quite other than the puffy cumulus that typically serves as web-based services’ kid-friendly mascot. Metahaven. We had some hyper-vigilant guards in the room, so I was able to sneak only one photo. “Islands in the Cloud” is, in a sense, a wunderkammer of the immaterial and inconceivable; it’s a room full of attempts to represent where today ‘s collections live — not in cabinets, but in the cirrostratus. From Artefacts, video to 35mm, via MoMAPS1 Cyprien Gaillard’s “ The Crystal World ” offers yet another set of tools or techniques for observing and classifying the world. He employs a wide variety of imaging technologies — iPhone videos transferred to 35mm film, painting, sculpture, photography, and, once again, cabinets . My favorite of his projects is apparently not new; he’s been working on the Geographical Analogies series for six years now — but this work was new to me, and I found it captivating. As the artspeak folks explain it, these works are… composed grids of Polaroids that are placed in visual correspondence with one another, presenting impressionistic inventories of landscapes and entropic architectural structures…. The photographs, like much of the artist’s work, capture images of ancient ruins, abandoned bunkers, and graffiti-covered urban structures- in short, disparate sites that are unified by their shared states of physical change, erosion, or decay over time. Photographic archaeological wunderkammern. Sensing that I’d come full circle, back to the rare-books-behind-glass at the Grolier Club, I thought this the perfect place to stop. Geographical Analogies. The only photo I managed to take, thanks, again, to the ubiquity of highly conscientious guards.   
4004	Yes	The Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC) and Archives and Records Association event ‘Digital Preservation: What I wish I knew before I started, 2013’ took place at Birkbeck College, London on 24 January 2013. A half-day conference, it brought together a group of leading specialists in the filed to discuss the challenges of digital collection. William Kilbride kicked off events with his presentation ‘What’s the problem with digital preservation’. He looked at the traditional -or in his words "bleak"- approach that is too often characterised by data loss. William suggested we need to create new approaches, such as understanding the actual potential and value of output; data loss is not the issue if there is no practical case for keeping or digitising material. Some key challenges facing digital archivists were also outlined and it was argued that impediments such as obsolescence issues and storage media failure are a problem bigger than one institution, and collaboration across the profession is paramount. Helen Hockx-Yu discussed how the British Library is collaborating with other institutions to archive websites of historical and cultural importance through the UK Web Archive. Interestingly, web archiving at the British Library is now a distinct business unit with a team of eight people. Like William, Helen also emphasised how useful it is to share experiences and work together, both internally and externally. Next, Dave Thompson, Digital Curator at the Wellcome Library stepped up with a lively presentation entitled ‘So You Want to go Digital’. For Dave, it is “not all glamour, metadata and preservation events”, which he illustrated with an example of his diary for the week. He then looked at the planning side of digital preservation, arguing that if digital preservation is going to work, not only are we required to be creative, but we need to be sure what we are doing is sustainable. Dave highlighted some key lessons from his career thus far: 1.     We must be willing to embrace change 2.     Data preservation is not solely an exercise in technology but requires engagement with data and consumers. 3.     Little things we do everyday in the workplace are essential to efficient digital preservation, including backup, planning, IT infrastructure, maintenance and virus checking. 4.     It needs to be easy to do and within our control, otherwise the end product is not preservation. 5.     Continued training is essential so we can make the right decisions in appraisal, arrangement, context, description and preservation. 6.     We must understand copyright access. Patricia Sleeman, Digital Archivist at University of London Computer Centre then highlighted a selection of practical skills that should underpin how we move forward with digital preservation. For instance, she stressed that information without context is meaningless and has little value without the appropriate metadata. Like the other speakers, she suggested planning is paramount, and before we start a project we must look forward and learn about how we will finish it. As such, project management is an essential tool, including the ability to understand budgets. Adrian Brown from the Parliamentary Archives continued with his presentation 'A Day in the Life of a Digital Archivist'. His talk was a real eye-opener on just how busy and varied the role is. A typical day for Adrian might involve talking to information owners about possible transfers, ingesting and cataloguing new records into the digital repository, web archiving, providing demos to various groups, drafting preservation policies and developing future requirements such as building software, software testing and preservation planning. No room to be bored here! Like Dave Thompson, Adrian noted that while there are more routine tasks such as answering emails and endless meetings, the rewards from being involved in a new and emerging discipline far outweigh the more mundane moments. We then heard from Simon Rooks from the BBC Multi-Media Archive who described the varied roles at his work (I think some of the audience were feeling quite envious here!). In keeping with the theme of the day, Simon reflected on his career path. Originally trained as a librarian, he argued that he would have benefited immensely as a digital archivist if he had learnt the key functions of an archivist’s role early on. He emphasised how the same archival principles (intake, appraisal and selection, cataloguing, access etc.) underpin our practices, whether records are paper or digital, and whether we are in archives or records management. These basic functions help to manage many of the issues concerning digital content. Simon added that the OAIS functional model is an approach that has encouraged multi-disciplinary team-work amongst those working at the BBC. After some coffee there followed a Qamp;A session, which proved lively and engaging. A lot of ground was covered including how appropriate it is to distinguish #39;digital archivists#39; from #39;archivists#39;. We also looked at issues of cost modelling and it was suggested that while we need to articulate budgets better, we should perhaps be less obsessed with costs and focus on the actual benefits and return of investment from projects. There was then some debate about what students should expect from undertaking the professional course. Most agreed that it is simply not enough to have the professional qualification, and continually acquiring new skill sets is essential. A highly enjoyable afternoon then, with some thought-provoking presentations, which were less about the techie side of digital preservation, and more a valuable lesson on the planning and strategies involved in managing digital assets. Communications, continued learning and project planning were central themes of the day, and importantly, that we should be seeking to build something that will have value and worth.
4005	Yes	 http://www.ru.nl/ehumanities/workshop-2013/ The Soeterbeeck eHumanities Workshop will take place on June 13 and 14, 2013 in study center Soeterbeeck, near Ravenstein, the Netherlands. The workshop aims to bring together junior and senior researchers in the humanities, those who are already working in eHumanities research, and those in historical research, culture studies, religious studies, language studies, etc., who are interested in the area and wish to get updated, educated, ask questions, and exchange ideas. For the humanities researchers we will have invited talks that show how digitalisation and computational methods can be used in humanities research. For the participants with an eHumanities background, the workshop will offer a broad overview of what is going on in the field and to meet with the top players in this field. We would like to go beyond a series of talks. We combine invited talks with “hands on” tutorials that show practical applications. Furthermore, we aim to create a meeting point for people from the humanities with people with a eHumanities background so that they can raise questions, ideas, proposals and cooperation. The program will start with a global introduction on “eHumanities: the added value so far” followed by invited talks from different perspectives that highlight the possibilities and the success stories in humanities, and two practical tutorials. As the last session we plan to have a panel talk on “how to write a proposal for eHumanities research?” As there are so many ways to write proposals, we will have different speakers tell about their experiences, and the dos and don’ts. We have chosen the Soeterbeeck Study Centre as a location. The former convent is a beautiful building in a scenic landscape, also offering hotel rooms for its guests and with easy access by train (station Ravenstein). Scope We would like to invite researchers in the area of eHumanities, people who apply computational techniques in the area of history, culture, arts and language to demonstrate their work with a poster or demonstration in the Soeterbeeck eHumanities workshop. We would like to invite the submission of abstracts (max. 2000 words) that describe the contribution. Posters will be presented in an evening session, see the programme for more details. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to: - Computational methods for the humanities - Digital representations of research objects - Automatic cleaning of digitised text - Annotation of digital cultural heritage data - Adapting existing tools for humanities resources - Knowledge discovery and text mining - Ontologies and thesauri Submission Submitted abstracts for poster or demo presentations should consist of a maximum of 2000 words.There are no specific restrictions on the submission in terms of format or anonymity. All submitted abstracts will be reviewed by the program committee. Please submit your abstract digitally by sending an email to i.hendrickx at let.ru.nl. Important dates Submission of proposals for oral and poster/demo papers: 1 April, 2013 Notification of acceptance: May 14, 2013 Conference date: June 13 and 14, 2013 Program Committee Antal van den Bosch, Radboud University Nijmegen Sally Wyatt, KNAW and Maastricht Universisity Marten Düring, Radboud University NijmegenTanja Döller, coordinator of the Graduate School for the Humanities at Radboud University Nijmegen Iris Hendrickx, Radboud University Nijmegen Contact If you have any questions or remarks about the Soeterbeerk eHumanities workshop, please send an email at Iris Hendrickx, i.hendrickx at let.ru.nl. 
4006	Yes	The Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC) and Archives and Records Association event ‘Digital Preservation: What I wish I knew before I started, 2013’ took place at Birkbeck College, London on 24 January 2013. A half-day conference, it brought together a group of leading specialists in the filed to discuss the challenges of digital collection. William Kilbride kicked off events with his presentation ‘What’s the problem with digital preservation’. He looked at the traditional -or in his words "bleak"- approach that is too often characterised by data loss. William suggested we need to create new approaches, such as understanding the actual potential and value of output; data loss is not the issue if there is no practical case for keeping or digitising material. Some key challenges facing digital archivists were also outlined and it was argued that impediments such as obsolescence issues and storage media failure are a problem bigger than one institution, and collaboration across the profession is paramount. Helen Hockx-Yu discussed how the British Library is collaborating with other institutions to archive websites of historical and cultural importance through the UK Web Archive. Interestingly, web archiving at the British Library is now a distinct business unit with a team of eight people. Like William, Helen also emphasised how useful it is to share experiences and work together, both internally and externally. Next, Dave Thompson, Digital Curator at the Wellcome Library stepped up with a lively presentation entitled ‘So You Want to go Digital’. For Dave, it is “not all glamour, metadata and preservation events”, which he illustrated with an example of his diary for the week. He then looked at the planning side of digital preservation, arguing that if digital preservation is going to work, not only are we required to be creative, but we need to be sure what we are doing is sustainable. Dave highlighted some key lessons from his career thus far: 1.     We must be willing to embrace change 2.     Data preservation is not solely an exercise in technology but requires engagement with data and consumers. 3.     Little things we do everyday in the workplace are essential to efficient digital preservation, including backup, planning, IT infrastructure, maintenance and virus checking. 4.     It needs to be easy to do and within our control, otherwise the end product is not preservation. 5.     Continued training is essential so we can make the right decisions in appraisal, arrangement, context, description and preservation. 6.     We must understand copyright access. Patricia Sleeman, Digital Archivist at University of London Computer Centre then highlighted a selection of practical skills that should underpin how we move forward with digital preservation. For instance, she stressed that information without context is meaningless and has little value without the appropriate metadata. Like the other speakers, she suggested planning is paramount, and before we start a project we must look forward and learn about how we will finish it. As such, project management is an essential tool, including the ability to understand budgets. Adrian Brown from the Parliamentary Archives continued with his presentation 'A Day in the Life of a Digital Archivist'. His talk was a real eye-opener on just how busy and varied the role is. A typical day for Adrian might involve talking to information owners about possible transfers, ingesting and cataloguing new records into the digital repository, web archiving, providing demos to various groups, drafting preservation policies and developing future requirements such as building software, software testing and preservation planning. No room to be bored here! Like Dave Thompson, Adrian noted that while there are more routine tasks such as answering emails and endless meetings, the rewards from being involved in a new and emerging discipline far outweigh the more mundane moments. We then heard from Simon Rooks from the BBC Multi-Media Archive who described the varied roles at his work (I think some of the audience were feeling quite envious here!). In keeping with the theme of the day, Simon reflected on his career path. Originally trained as a librarian, he argued that he would have benefited immensely as a digital archivist if he had learnt the key functions of an archivist’s role early on. He emphasised how the same archival principles (intake, appraisal and selection, cataloguing, access etc.) underpin our practices, whether records are paper or digital, and whether we are in archives or records management. These basic functions help to manage many of the issues concerning digital content. Simon added that the OAIS functional model is an approach that has encouraged multi-disciplinary team-work amongst those working at the BBC. After some coffee there followed a Qamp;A session, which proved lively and engaging. A lot of ground was covered including how appropriate it is to distinguish #39;digital archivists#39; from #39;archivists#39;. We also looked at issues of cost modelling and it was suggested that while we need to articulate budgets better, we should perhaps be less obsessed with costs and focus on the actual benefits and return of investment from projects. There was then some debate about what students should expect from undertaking the professional course. Most agreed that it is simply not enough to have the professional qualification, and continually acquiring new skill sets is essential. A highly enjoyable afternoon then, with some thought-provoking presentations, which were less about the techie side of digital preservation, and more a valuable lesson on the planning and strategies involved in managing digital assets. Communications, continued learning and project planning were central themes of the day, and importantly, that we should be seeking to build something that will have value and worth.
4007	Yes	well I think we can safely assume the bloom is off the rose.  The book we are working with this semester, Elshtain#39;s Women and War is dense as heck for non-philosophy students in a gen ed.  Combine that with some senioritis and the 8 AM time slot, and I had students with their heads on the seminar table, far too much yawning, tardiness and failure to read. I closed my eyes and envisioned my happy place (latest version beach at Cape May Lighthouse) I wanted to yell, really I did, because nothing irks me more than unprepared students, but that would not be in keeping with the whole participant pedagogy approach. So instead I asked the students "what would you do about the late/unprepared students?" to my surprise one student piped up quot;I#39;d make the student write a paper.quot;  So we decided that.  However when I posted that to our facebook group one student replied that he had not agreed to this.  I#39;m not sure if he wasn#39;t paying close attention, as he was the student with his head on the table, but his suggestion was that participation should count for more in the class. I'm going to discuss this again with the students at the next course meeting but it raises a couple of key issues. 1. majority rule or consensus: I've always gone with the latter, and in small classes it is usually possible, but what happens if it cannot be reached. 2. how long/much do you allow the course to be revised.  We just completed week 3.  If the students decided to move some of the points in the class to participation, is the decision retroactive or from this point on?
4008	Yes	‘Sustaining our Digital Future’, a new report from JISC and Ithaka S+R aimed at helping digital projects to thrive was published yesterday, in which UCLDH is proud to feature highly.  You can read the report here: http://sca.jiscinvolve.org/wp/files/2013/01/Sustaining-our-digital-future-FINAL-31.pdf
4009	Yes	 The Mercator projection can be useful for giving directions, but when it comes to world maps, the projection doesn't hold up well as you move far north and south. By how much? Give this puzzle game a try and match the red boundaries to their respective countries. 
4010	Yes	Kim Martin, a member of the Digging DH team (University of Western Ontario), will be visiting UCLDH 11-20 February and would like to interview both staff and students on their thoughts about DH, the tools used for their research, the social network of DH and more.  If you would like to take part, please contact [...]
4011	Yes	It’s our pleasure to invite you to join the Citizen Science Open Technical Workshop to be held Wednesday 30th January 16:00 CET virtually using Google Hangout. You can attend the meeting and send all your comments in this Youtube channel or this twitter account . Over 2 hours, we’ll have expert talks and open discussions about technologies for volunteer computing and thinking projects like: BOINC , the popular volunteer computing desktop middleware used in scientific projects like Seti@Home where volunteers donate their computing resources for analyzing radio telescope data, Einstein@Home where you could help analyzing weak astrophysical signals from spinning neutron stars, or CERN’s LHC@Home where the users help the physicists to develop and exploit particle accelerators like CERN’s Large Hadron Collider . BOSSA , a distributed thinking framework for creating scientific projects where the volunteers perform tasks that require human intelligence, knowledge, or cognitive skills. An example of this technology is the project Transcribe Bleek amp; Lloyd where the volunteers help to transcribe Bushman hand written documents. PyBossa , the OKFN’s framework for volunteer thinking projects where volunteers could participate in scientific applications like Feynman’s Flowers where the volunteers help to study how molecules interact with the surfaces they are stuck to, ForestWatchers.net where the users can help to detect deforested areas from satellite images in forests, or for example helping in damage assessment cases like with the Pablo Typhoon or oil spills by Shell experienced by the company in the Niger Delta (Nigeria). and other fantastic technologies! You can get more details on the Open Science blog and on Google Plus . 
4012	Yes	The Edinburgh Open Data community started the year in fine style with a meet-up hosted by the National Library of Scotland on George IV Bridge. The turn-out was excellent, with a wide range of participants . As usual, we had a number of lightening talks. The meet-up started with a welcome from Darryl Mead, Deputy National Librarian, who pointed out that openness was at the core of the NLS mission, and that work was underway to make information about the holdings easily accessible. Amy Guy reported on her visit to the 1st International Open Data Dialog  in Berlin, 5-6 December 2012. She was impressed by how successful the event was in demonstrating that Open Data is of practical value right now, rather than in some indeterminate future. Amy has a detailed blog post about the event. Freda O’Byrne emphasised that small voluntary organisations (such as Play-Base ,   Duddingston Field Group , and Scatterbox Films ) can be hugely helped by access to the right kind of data, particularly when they need to write a case for further funding or when they are trying to network with other relevant organisations. Recent developments in the approach to Open Data by the Scottish Government were described by Ben Plouviez (Head of Knowledge Information and Records Management). Some of the main challenges stem from cultural attitudes to data within the civil service; the cost of publishing open data on a sustainable basis; and the development of technical infrastructure such as URI sets. Areas where we can expect to see progress include increased sharing of data between different public institutions within Scotland; publishing dynamic datasets rather than isolated snapshots; and a better appreciation of the value of data analytics by managers within the Scottish public sector. Expanding on Darryl’s introduction, Gill Hamilton described recent initiatives in Openness at NLS , including plans to appoint a Wikipedian in Residence, and the release of metadata for digital resources as Linked Open Data. Another issue under debate is whether it would be possible for NLS to provide open access to the digital resources themselves with loss of revenue. Andy Wightman described current obstacles to answering the question “ Who owns Scotland? “, highlighting the fact that members of the public are currently unable to view access information about land registration held by the Registers of Scotland without paying a fee. He had argued (unsuccessfully) during the course of the Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012, that access should be free (fee income accounts for only 5.3% of the Register’s revenue .) The wider debate about land taxation and land reform is hampered by the inadequate public availability of data on landownership. It seemed as though lots of new connections were being made during the networking parts of the event, and some new collaborations were being hatched, possibly including a pilot project involving Scotland’s iconic Forth Rail Bridge. Elevation and Plan drawing of the Forth Bridge, 1890, ©RCAHMS The level of activity around Open Data in Scotland is definitely on the rise. A lot of events and initiatives are being planned, including the following: The 2nd UK Ontology Network Workshop will take place in Edinburgh, April 11th. We are planning to run an Open Data Day in Edinburgh on 23 February . The next Open Data meet-up #OpenDataEDB will take place on 5th March, 6.00 pm at Edinburgh Napier University. 
4013	Yes	 Belgium has been quiet for a while, but that doesn’t mean less busy. In fact, we’ve been so busy that from time to time we forgot to communicate! We hope to solve this with this winter update. Open Transport We love transport data. Our Open Transport Working Group, iRail , has just netted a front-end engineering contract for SoLoMIDEM , a project to develop an identity manager. SoLoMIDEM stands for Social Location Mobile Identity Manager, and is part of an effort to integrate iRail and Viking Spots with Facebook, Twitter and so on. You’ll be able to use any of these services to let people know what you’re doing, where you’re going and how late your train is going to be. And if you have to wait for your train to arrive, you’ll be able to look up interesting spots near your location. Ultimately, the aim is to create a single service that acts as a proxy to all the other networks, so developers can just connect to one service. Summer Of Code 2013 The iRail Summer of code (#iSoc13) is an event where students are hired during the first three weeks of July to work, as a summer job, on projects concerning mobility and/or open data. The location of iSoc is in Ghent, the natural habitat of most of our students and the place in Belgium where the most web innovation happens; furthermore, they all work in the same place, allowing cross-pollination between the projects. In order to finance these students, other organisations can sponsor the iRail NPO to work on a project of choice. We are looking for project sponsors, project ideas, and student job applications. And if you want to help us organise it, that’s more than welcome as well! Anything can be mailed towards board at iRail.be. Apps for Europe – help needed! Another project that’s keeping us super-busy is the EU-funded “Apps for Europe”. The project is looking at how Apps events are designed and managed so as to maximise their impact and sustainability. As part of the project, we’re helping organise a whole load of Apps events, on a local, national and thematic basis. To make these work, we need you! Check out the websites and [get in touch](mailto: mathias@idrops.be) for more info! Apps For Bruges Apps For Ghent 3 Apps For Belgium Apps For Culture Apps For Antwerp 2 Apps For VDAB We Open Data We’ve launched an exciting new working group, called “ We Open Data .” The group is for freelancers who have knowledge about open data tools (such as CKAN and The DataTank). They give consulting under the name We Open Data to local governments, ICT departments, and so on. The group has already notched up a couple of cool projects, including a tourism initiative for West Flanders, a job database for Flanders, and two local data portals, data.gent.be and opendata.antwerpen.be. The group will also be working with iMinds on an important project for the Flemish government, developing an innovative open data platform that will ultimately be rolled out at all administrative levels. The project was announced by Innovation Minister Ingrid Liten, who said: “A strong government is a transparent and efficient government. It shares its useful information with its citizens. Therefore I resolutely opt for open data as a principle for the government.” And also… The Belgian branch of Creative Commons was (re)launched on the 8th December at iMAL. We’re in the process of finalising our formalities with CC-HQ, should be officially up and running by February. COngratulations to our friends at Ontoforce on their successful funding bid to develop their disQover tool, which powers our schoolKID app! We’re really pleased to welcome two new colleagues, Michiel Vancoillie who joins us as a programmer, and Mathias Van Compernolle who’s going to be coordinating Apps For X . We’ve moved! We have changed offices temporarily to the iMinds start-up garage , a lovely new home! 
4014	Yes	 THE PUBLIC PRIVATE Sheila C. Johnson Design Center  Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Gallery 2 W 13th St., NY, NY 10011 February 7 - April 17, 2013 Opening reception: Wednesday, February 6, 6:00 - 8:00 pm The Public Private explores the impact of social media and new technologies on the relationship between the public and private realm. The artworks brought together in The Public Private address these issues from psychological, legal, and economic perspectives and use strategies ranging from hacking to self-surveillance to reflect upon the profound changes in our understanding of identity, personal boundaries, and self-representation. Works on view include Paolo Cirio and Alessandro Ludovico’s Face to Facebook, a multimedia installation of one million Facebook profiles, which were “appropriated” by the artists, filtered using facial-recognition software, and then posted on a custom-made dating website sorted by facial expressions. Eva and Franco Mattes’ The Others is a video installation composed of 10,000 photos the Mattes have acquired through a software glitch that gives remote access to personal computers. The core of the work is not just the presentation of these images, but the act of “stealing” and moving them from the private into the public realm. Other artists and works represented in the gallery include Jill Magid’s Evidence Locker, Luke Dubois’ Missed Connections, Wafaa Bilal’s 3rdi, Carlo Zanni’s Self Portrait with Friends, James Coupe's Panoptic Panorama #2: Five People in a Room, Paolo Cirio’s Street Ghosts, and Ben Grosser’s Facebook Demetricator. The Public Private is curated by Christiane Paul, an Associate Professor in the School of Media Studies at The New School and Adjunct Curator of New Media Arts at the Whitney Museum of American Art. software studies initiative 
4015	Yes	 THE PUBLIC PRIVATE Sheila C. Johnson Design Center  Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Gallery 2 W 13th St., NY, NY 10011 February 7 - April 17, 2013 Opening reception: Wednesday, February 6, 6:00 - 8:00 pm The Public Private explores the impact of social media and new technologies on the relationship between the public and private realm. The artworks brought together in The Public Private address these issues from psychological, legal, and economic perspectives and use strategies ranging from hacking to self-surveillance to reflect upon the profound changes in our understanding of identity, personal boundaries, and self-representation. Works on view include Paolo Cirio and Alessandro Ludovico’s Face to Facebook, a multimedia installation of one million Facebook profiles, which were “appropriated” by the artists, filtered using facial-recognition software, and then posted on a custom-made dating website sorted by facial expressions. Eva and Franco Mattes’ The Others is a video installation composed of 10,000 photos the Mattes have acquired through a software glitch that gives remote access to personal computers. The core of the work is not just the presentation of these images, but the act of “stealing” and moving them from the private into the public realm. Other artists and works represented in the gallery include Jill Magid’s Evidence Locker, Luke Dubois’ Missed Connections, Wafaa Bilal’s 3rdi, Carlo Zanni’s Self Portrait with Friends, James Coupe's Panoptic Panorama #2: Five People in a Room, Paolo Cirio’s Street Ghosts, and Ben Grosser’s Facebook Demetricator. The Public Private is curated by Christiane Paul, an Associate Professor in the School of Media Studies at The New School and Adjunct Curator of New Media Arts at the Whitney Museum of American Art. software studies initiative 
4016	Yes	Public Knowledge has released What#39;s the Deal with Copyright and 3D Printing? Here#39;s an excerpt from the announcement : Today Public Knowledge is happy to announce a new whitepaper: What#39;s the Deal with Copyright and 3D Printing? This paper is something of a follow up to our previous 3D printing whitepaper It Will Be Awesome if They Don#39;t Screw It Up: 3D Printing, Intellectual Property, and the Fight Over the Next Great Disruptive Technology . Unlike It Will Be Awesome , which focused on the broad connection between intellectual property law and 3D printing, What#39;s the Deal? takes a deeper dive into the relationship between copyright and 3D printing. . . . Of course, the first step in understanding what is not protected by copyright is recognizing what is protected by copyright. What#39;s the Deal? is designed to help mark those boundaries and draw focus to the hard — and easy — questions that the boundaries raise. | Reviews of Digital Scholarship Publications | Digital Scholarship | The post What’s the Deal with Copyright and 3D Printing? appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4017	Yes	The University of California, San Diego Library is recruiting a Director, Research Data Curation Services. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : The Research Data Curation Services program is responsible for strategically developing and building research data curation services in support of UC San Diego#39;s researchers#39; needs to manage, preserve, and provide access to their data sets. | Digital Scholarship | The post Director, Research Data Curation Services at University of California, San Diego Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4018	Yes	Ithaka S+R has released Sustaining Our Digital Future: Institutional Strategies for Digital Content . Here#39;s an excerpt from the announcement : This study involved interviews with more than 80 project leaders and university, library, and museum administrators across the United Kingdom. In the first phase, we interviewed 40 practitioners in the higher education and cultural heritage sectors throughout the United Kingdom to gain an understanding of the processes in place to support digital content post-grant. In the second phase, we closely examined the digital strategies in place at three institutions to better understand the digital content the institutions support, their processes for creating and supporting that content, and, more generally, the role that digital content plays in the strategy of their institutions. | Digital Curation Bibliography: Preservation and Stewardship of Scholarly Works (EPUB file, PDF file, paperback, and XHTML website; over 650 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post Sustaining Our Digital Future: Institutional Strategies for Digital Content appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4019	Yes	The Gibson D. Lewis Health Science Center Library at the University of North Texas is recruiting a Web Services Librarian. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad (requisition number: 3115): The Web Services Librarian is responsible for creating and updating Website content such as informational pages, forms, images, and databases. In consultation with the Web Advisory Group, designs the information architecture and navigation of Lewis Library Websites, including the library staff intranet (Sharepoint) and mobile Website. Oversees aesthetic aspects of website design, including third-party products such as the catalog, e-journal portal, and course reserve system. Implements UNTHSC design standards. | Digital Scholarship | The post Web Services Librarian at Gibson D. Lewis Health Science Center Library at the University of North Texas appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4020	Yes	 Ranjana Warier calls herself a computer science and engineering geek with a passion for Indian dance tradition. As  2012 Knight Arts Challenge Miami  winner, she is fusing her passions together to produce western fairy tales that demystify classic Indian culture. Warier, a cyber security expert by day, says her technical background blends well with this project. “In Indian dance, we need to use counts to do everything in set time measures. I also do all my music mixing myself because I’m comfortable using computers and software.” Her first thematic Indian production this fall will feature the classic fairy tale, Sleeping Beauty, mixing traditional dance and English narration. She says that the “experiment” has donors excited and that it helped launch the production sooner than expected. In a Qamp;A with Knight Foundation, Warier takes us backstage for a preview. 
4021	Yes	 Creating Community Investment MediaCommons 3209461104_6415389522_b.jpg Response to building digital cohorts and academic communities left 
4022	Yes	in keeping with every dang survey every published that shows employers "value" the "skills" of the "Humanities" I'm attempted to craft assignments in my courses that show students the "relevancy" of "humanities" to "today."* So as I  blogged before, students in my women#39;s history class have the option to tweet as a historical figure  for a week at the end of the semester (turns out this is far harder than it sounds and requires tons of synthesizing source material). I'm about to have students in my 20th century social movements course write a press release for the Wobblies based on readings, photos and sources. Now I#39;m up to the Klan, which is proving a little bit more difficult, mostly because of my ideological bias against well, THE KLAN.  I#39;m considering targeting recruiting letters for the Klan as I want them to grasp the many different groups that found a quot;homequot; in the ideology. other thoughts  a slogan for the John Birch Society a PSA for the free speech movement, perhaps twitter campaign for NOW and the new right? I'm all for other assignment suggestions though, so tweet 'em if you got 'em @professmoravec * please note ironic use of scare quotes I'm all for the humanities just because they are good enough on their own.
4023	Yes	
4024	Yes	Today is the deadline to get your proposals in if you have a case study you’d like considered for inclusion in either the book on outreach or reference in archives and special collections (full info here and here ). I said “get in touch with me” in the title of this post because while today is the deadline, if for some reason you’re just hearing about this and need an extra day or two, I can give you some slack but I need you to send me a message letting me to expect something from you. A similar call for case studies for a book on description will be coming shortly, followed by another for case studies on management in archives and special collections. Also as I mentioned on Twitter, after I get all the proposals in for outreach I may decide to do a separate book specifically on outreach to students (K-12, undergrad, and graduate). I think there’s enough demand for it even though there have been some recent publications in that area. If I do that I’ll issue a second call, just to give everyone a fair chance. Thanks for all the great proposals so far. One of the reasons I agreed to take on this assignment is that it would give me a chance to learn about and promote all the great, and often unrecognized, work that’s going on out there. And if there’s a topic out there that you think would be a good fit for another book in this series, let me know. Digitization is a possibility, as is appraisal/acquisition. Do those sound good? What else would you like to see? 
4025	Yes	 Just discovering this: Have an iPad? Yes? Then lucky you! Now you can have the vast and wonderful digital collections of Gallica — the digital library of the Bibliothèque nationale de France ( BnF) — a t your fingertips. The BnF recently released their own iPad app, making available around 2 million digitized items from their Gallica collections. Joyous! BnF Releases iPad App of Digital Collections « Humanities@Penn State Libraries Tagged: apps , archives , digital humanities , libraries , tools 
4026	Yes	Consider including these in your gamification design Many designers are using  gamification  to intrigue their users and keep them involved with an application over time. However, you want to make sure that the mechanics you are using are sound, and will make the most out of your effort. Some ludemes (things like badges, experience points, achievements, levels) may look useful since they are used in many games, but can be overused and may eventually turn a user off. Here are some things that will work in  gamification .       Prizes Everyone loves a prize, right?  Of course. And so do your users. Some apps give reward points just for checking into businesses. Some give you rewards just for watching TV. The points can be redeemed for actual products or services. Prizes could also include discounts or upgrades. However, if they are too difficult, people will not want to use them, and if you decide to only use prizes for a certain amount of time, people will end up disliking you for taking it away. So if you start with prizes, stay with them.   Upvotes, Likes, Follows, etc… Validations show the popularity of a person or thing. Upvotes, likes, follows, retweets, favorites, etc. show that popularity among other users. Since popularity is the main factor, communities easily grow, therefore this is a strong thing to implement. One downside is laid out by Tadhg Kelly in  TechCrunch  when he says, “[validation] also requires that the source content or service is taken somewhere outside of the provider’s control, so you need to be comfortable with that.”   Funny Achievements If you are set on using achievements, you must ensure that they serve a purpose beyond that of “achievement earned.” Whoever decides the achievement scale has a complete knowledge of why each achievement has a certain tile or meaning. Make sure that is related to the user. Otherwise only the creator will actually understand it.  What would be the point of that? So make them amusing! Give users a little laugh and something they could quickly show their friends for a quick laugh.   The (Lack of) Naïvety of the User  One of the most important things to keep in mind is that the user is not naive. They have real working brains in their heads. Kelly reminds you, “It may seem as though gamifying is all about adding various quantities (levels, badges, progress bars) to actions and creating airs of mystery. It may also seem that users are sheep who follow every system like this with more significance than they actually have. The truth is . . . that if users can’t see a point behind the number then they will soon drift away. ”   Gamification  is a lot of fun for a user. It keeps them connected to an app in a positive way, which is good for business. This allows for designers to come up with new, effective experiences that attract users in different ways. Image by  metamerist --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post 4 Quick Gamification Design Tips that Work Well appeared first on Gamification Co . 
4027	Yes	 This sheet music for ”I come! I come!”  by J. Z. Hesser came with a “portrait” of Queen Victoria, which seems to be distantly descended from George Hayter’s state portrait . 
4028	Yes	Tuesday, February 12, 2013 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Room SW 107 in the Med-Dent Building Despite their widespread use, multiple choice questions (MCQs) can be challenging to write. How do you develop quality MCQs that discourage rote memorization and encourage critical thinking? The “trick” in constructing these questions is avoiding common technical flaws in item development and targeting higher-level thinking skills such as application and integration. Such questions can assess a variety of learning objectives efficiently. In this session, Dr. Aviad Haramati (Dept. of Biochemistry) and Dr. Peg Weissinger (Office of Medical Education) will briefly review some simple steps and technical considerations in designing good multiple choice questions and practice using Bloom’s Taxonomy to target questions to the appropriate cognitive level. Following the review, participants will take their own MCQs and refine them during this hands-on portion while presenters circulate to answer any specific questions. Participants are encouraged to bring their personal laptops. The presenters would like to use your real-life examples in their presentation. If participants are interested in feedback toward improving their MCQs, please email one MCQ to paw33@georgetown.edu no later than Friday, February 8. Take advantage of this opportunity for a critique by colleagues! This session is co-sponsored by The Center for New Designs in Learning amp; Scholarship (CNDLS) and the Office of Faculty and Academic Affairs (OFAA). Lunch will be served. Please RSVP to Amina Khanaz at ak646@georgetown.edu . 
4029	Yes	 News Networks in Venice, 7-9 March 2013 News Networks is approaching its fifth workshop, to be held at the Universita Ca’ Foscari in Venice in six weeks time.  This event will be our last research workshop before the project conference, News and the Shape of Europe 1500-1750 (to be held at Queen Mary, University of London this summer from 26-28 July – deadline for abstracts is the 28 th of February, so get submitting!).  Confirmed speakers at this event include the project director, Joad Raymond (QMUL), as well as Mario Infelise (our host on this occasion), Sheila Barker (Medici Archive Project) , Laura Carnelos, Chiara Palazzo, and Massimo Petta . The meeting will have a strong regional focus; as our previous two meetings have examined the Germanies and the Iberian peninsula, this event will focus on Italy, including papers on Venetian, Roman and Florentine networks of news-gathering and distribution.  The other strand of the workshop will be a comparative focus on the role of censorship and state control in the production and circulation of news throughout Europe, from the self-regulation of the Stationer’s Company in London to the intensive state interference in France (which practically established the newspaper as an organ of state, and from which even literary journalism was not immune – see last week’s blog on the Journal des Sçavans. )  The various modes and intensities of censorship, the criteria according to which they were applied, and the strategies used for getting around them are of critical importance to understanding the structure and function of early modern news networks.  Who had the task of censoring the news? What kinds of news were especially prone to censorship? And what were its aims (that is, was it principally concerned to suppress news at home, or abroad?) The Italian focus of the meeting is particularly apposite for these questions, at once because of the continuing importance of the manuscript newsletter in Italy, the many and competing jurisdictions on the peninsula, and the prominence given to news from Rome and Venice in news in other European languages.   More news of the event will be posted here in due course; and suggestions for further topics and themes for discussion are of course always welcome!    
4030	Yes	 
4031	Yes	 Yung-Hsing Wu and I have an ongoing dialogue about the nature of academic work. I guess academic is as good an adjective for it as any, and has a bit more fit here for reasons discussed below, but all academic does is to locate work which might just as well be described as scholarly work, [...]
4032	Yes	 via  invisiblestories   
4033	Yes	 As you play a digital music file on an audio-enabled device such as a computer or smart phone, the audio player displays information about the song. Sometimes that happens because the player has an associated database, sometime that happens because the information is embedded in the file. This blog is about embedding, how song information can be inserted into a special section of that audio file and become part of the file. If you create your own digital recording – such as an interview or a band recording – and play the audio file on an audio-enabled device, the player might display only the name of the file and nothing more. That’s because the descriptive information is missing; there’s nothing to display. If you want the file to display information you have to add it in yourself. Adding a description is easy to do. It is also a good practice if you intend to keep the file for a long time and want the file to be self-documenting and give you information about itself. Embedded information travels with the file. Or rather, embedded information generally travels with the file. Audio files can also lose those descriptions as the files get copied, transferred from device to device or processed with different apps or software. But if you are aware of the potential issues, you can keep your text intact inside their host audio files. At the end of this post I’ll present a few experiments you can use to test audio files with embedded descriptions. I mentioned the way some applications manage your sound collection with a database of information about the music it stores. These applications may display the title, artist and other information about the recording but all of that information comes from the database. These systems do not embed metadata into the individual audio files. There’s a big difference. And if you modify information about a recording while you are in one of these applications, you just modify database information; the information contained in the recording itself will not be affected. MP3 metadata fields Given the variety of digital audio files that exist, for this post we’ll just look at two of the most widely used formats: WAV and MP3. Of the two, WAV is the higher quality. More often than not, the audio it contains is uncompressed, which means that it remains exactly the same size as when it was recorded and it hasn’t been squished down into a smaller file size. An MP3 is compressed, which means that some of the “less important” digital data – for example, frequencies that you probably couldn’t hear anyway – gets removed, which reduces the size of the file. The appeal of compression is that a smaller, compressed file transfers quickly over the Internet and between devices much quicker than a large file. The added text information is called metadata and the process of adding descriptive text to an audio file is sometimes referred to as tagging . For more detailed information on embedding metadata you can consult the Federal Agencies Guideline titled “ Embedding Metadata in Digital Audio Files .” Header from an MP3 file If you open a WAV or MP3 file with, say, a text editor such as SimpleText for Mac or Notepad for PC, you’ll see a dense mass of characters representing the audio data itself. But you’d also see — at the beginning or the end of the file — an area with plain English words describing the contents of the file. This is called the header and it is where the metadata resides. Metadata field names in audio file headers are oriented to music recordings, even though the term “audio” includes spoken voice, and natural and human-made sounds. So audio metadata fields (sometimes called “frames”) have names like Artist, Song, Date and Genre, though there are many more field types available. In WAV files, these terms are represented by four-character codes, e.g., IART for artist, ICRD for creation date, and so on (there’s a list in the document cited above). Let’s say you’ve recorded an interview and you want to add information about the recording to the audio file. There is plenty of software available for adding metadata but still, among all of the software, the metadata field names are pre-set with musical titles. So in your recording you could put the interviewee’s name as the Artist, give the Date of the recording and even title your interview session in the Song field. Better yet, most audio metadata fields include a comments field that can hold a lot of text. The field titles shouldn’t limit you. To enter your own metadata and tags, you need the right tool. An online search will turn up many free WAV and MP3-tag editing tools that will open the audio file header and display a form into which you can fill in the information. For more advanced work there is music editing and processing software, which also prompts you to add metadata to the file when you save the file as a WAV or an MP3. Some audio processing software will even carry that same metadata forward; if you add metadata to a WAV file and then make an MP3 version from that WAV, the MP3 file will inherit the same metadata that you put into the WAV. There is no single official metadata standard or container yet to which all audio software and hardware makers adhere, though the closest thing is a popular informal container called  ID3 , which is most often associated with MP3s. An online search for “ID3 tag tool” will turn up a lot of free and useful tools that’ll enable you to see and edit the headers of MP3 files. For more detailed information about ID3, see the Library of Congress’s Sustainability of Digital Formats  site for “ ID3 Metadata for MP3, Version 2 .” If you sell or distribute your music online in the form of MP3s, adding Genre information can be as important — maybe even more important — than Name or Title, since many people often shop for songs of certain genres. And if you upload your file to a commercial distribution service, the metadata in your files should get sucked right into their system. Such metadata can be crucial for a musician’s livelihood, particularly regarding copyright and contact information. Musicians might also want to register an ISNI number , a unique ID sort of like a social security number, and add their ISNI number into their music files with the other metadata. Audio metadata is not only good for documenting and displaying information about an audio file. When the file gets indexed, the English words in the header become searchable. So packing an audio header with rich metadata is a good way to attract searchers to your music. The header/metadata system is not 100% reliable. It is possible for metadata to get ignored when an audio file is copied or stripped out if an audio file is processed, modified or altered in some way. The most reliable means of preserving metadata is to add it to the original file, the master file (ideally an uncompressed WAV), and store the master file safely away. Only work with copies. And check the copies to make sure they, too, contain the metadata. You may have to add it in again. Until standards are in place and automatically implemented by all the appropriate audio hardware and software companies, it is especially important to be mindful of audio metadata if you intend to preserve audio files that you’ve created yourself or are responsible for or have some financial stake in. So, on to the experiments. Here is a song from the American Memory collection, “John Henry,” sung by Arthur Bell . Download the MP3 version and the WAV version (on a PC: right click and “save link as”; on a Mac: control click and “save link as”) and run some tests on them. TEST #1 – DISPLAYING METADATA Run whatever media player you use to play music on your computer and open up the MP3 file. As the song plays, does any song information display? You might try browsing the menus for Summary or Properties. Try different players. Try the same thing with the WAV file.  Import the MP3 and WAV files into your smart phone or other listening device. Does the song information display for both files? Using a text editor (such as TextEdit on a Mac or NotePad on a PC), open the MP3 and WAV files; the WAV file is large and will take a while to display. Make sure your text editor is set to open “Files of type gt; All files” or it won’t see either audio file. Can you see any English words at the beginning or end of the contents? That’s the header. TEST #2 – MODIFYING MP3 METADATA Search online for “ID3 tagger.” Once you find one, download and install it. Run the ID3 tagger and open the MP3 file. The metadata should display in several fields. Change the information in any field — type in anything — then close it up and play the newly modified MP3 file with a media player. Does your new information display in the player? TEST #3 – DOES MODIFYING THE AUDIO FILE AFFECT THE DESCRIPTIONS? For this you will need audio processing software. If you don’t already have it, search online for “audio processing software.” SourceForge.net usually has free, open source, cross-platform software for recording and editing sounds. Once you have the audio processing software running, open the WAV and MP3 files and modify the WAV a little. Snip out the hiss in the first six seconds of the file. Maybe reduce the bit rate or convert it from mono to stereo. Then close the file and play it with a media player. Does the metadata still display? If you try any of these experiments, please let us know what software or hardware you used and what your results were. 
4034	Yes	 Biostatistics PhD candidate Hilary Parker dived into the most poisoned names in US history . Her own name topped the list. There were several fad names such as Deneen, Catina, and Farrah that saw a quick spike and then a plummet, but the trend for Hilary is different. "Hilary", though, was clearly different than these flash-in-the-pan names. The name was growing in popularity (albeit not monotonically) for years. So to remove all of the fad names from the list, I chose only the names that were in the top 1000 for over 20 years, and updated the graph (note that I changed the range on the y-axis). I think it's pretty safe to say that, among the names that were once stable and then had a sudden drop, "Hilary" is clearly the most poisoned. There it is minding its own business, enjoying a steady rise in popularity over a few decades, and then boom, Bill Clinton is elected, and the name dies a quick death. Be sure to check out the rest of the analysis. Good stuff. [Thanks, @ hspter ] 
4035	Yes	Da hier im Blog bereits mehrfach über das deutsch-polnische Schulbuchprojekt berichtet und diskutiert wurde, ist die Aufnahme des folgenden Hinweises nur folgerichtig: Unter dem Titel “Ein neuer Blick auf die Geschichte Europas? Innovative didaktische Ansätze im Geschichtsbuch” findet am 21.02. auf der Didacta in Köln ein gemeinsamer Workshop von Universum Verlag und dem Georg-Eckert-Institut für [...] 
4036	Yes	 quot;Final draftquot;of Open Review: A Study of Contexts and Practices now available MediaCommons 7086359929_0fecd92b15_b.jpg We are excited to announce that the quot;final draftquot; of the white paper is now available for download. right 
4037	Yes	Last week I was delighted to be back at my old stomping grounds at Rice University’s Digital Media Commons to lead a workshop on “Doing Things with Text.” The workshop was part of Rice’s Digital Humanities Bootcamp Series , led by my former colleagues Geneva Henry and Melissa Bailar. I hoped to expose participants to a range of approaches and tools, provide opportunities for hands-on exploration and play, and foster discussion about the advantages and limitations of text analysis, topic modeling, text encoding, and metadata. Although we ran out of time before getting through my ambitious agenda, I hope my  slides and exercises provide useful starting points for exploring text analysis and text encoding. 
4038	Yes	I blogged last October about a paper from Harvard in Science describing using DNA as a digital storage medium . In a fascinating keynote at IDCC2013 Ewan Birney of EMBL discussed a paper in Nature with a much more comprehensive look at this technology. It has been getting a lot of press , much of it as usual somewhat misleading . Below the fold I delve into the details. The Harvard team wrote and read about 640KB of data divided into 96-bit blocks with a 19-bit address. The EMBL team used a more sophisticated encoding scheme designed to avoid sequences prone to error in synthesis, and including parity-check error detection in each block. They wrote about 740KB, converted it to a form suitable for long-term storage, shipped it with no special precautions, read a sample of the DNA and stored the rest. I believe that this work is pointing in an interesting direction for long-term data storage. DNA is extremely stable in shirt-sleeve environments, and the fact that it is very cheap to replicate allows the Lots Of Copies Keep Stuff Safe principle far more play than any competing medium. But even more interesting from my point of view is that the EMBL team provide current costs for their technique, and attempt to compare its costs with current tape-based dark archival storage. They quote costs of $12.4K/MB for writing and $0.22K/MB for reading. These costs have in recent years decreased much faster than magnetic media costs, so their graphs showing 10- and 100-fold relative improvements are not unreasonable. However, this quote is way too optimistic : "In 10 years, it's probably going to be about 100 times cheaper," said Dr. Goldman. "At that time, it probably becomes economically viable." The EMBL team compute the cost of long-term storage in DNA using market prices for synthesis. They compare this with a model they constructed of the cost of long-term storage on tape. But they didn't need their own model of tape cost; long-term storage is available in the market from Amazon's Glacier , which is rumored to be three independent copies on LT06 tape (I am not convinced ). Fewer than three copies would not be reliable enough for long-term storage. Glacier storage currently costs 1c/GB/mo . Generously, I assume writing costs of $7.5K/MB for DNA (See the Supplementary Material for the source of this number). If, instead of spending $7.5M to write 1GB of data to DNA the money is invested at 0.1%/yr real interest it would generate an income of $7.5K/yr for ever. Even assuming that Amazon never drops Glacier's price to match technological improvement, this would be enough to store three copies of 62.5TB for ever. The same money is storing (three copies of) 62,500 times as much data. Lets assume more realistic interest rates, say 1%, so that the $7.5M invested would generate $75K/yr and pay for 625TB at Glacier. I also assume tape costs dropping at the industry's 20%/yr projection for disk, and a 100-fold improvement in DNA synthesis in 10 years. In 10 years it will cost $75K to write the data to DNA. That $75K would generate $750/yr. Assuming, although they probably won't , that Amazon drops the Glacier price to match tape costs, in 10 years they would be charging 0.1c/GB/mo. The $750/yr would pay to store (three copies of) 62.5TB. The 100-fold improvement in DNA synthesis less the 10-fold improvement in tape leads to a 10-fold gain in competitiveness of DNA in 10 years. But it still needs at least a further 6,250-fold improvement. I've pointed out that Kryder's Law for disks has slowed ; its prospects more than a decade out are dim . Nevertheless, even if tape stopped improving in 2023 and DNA synthesis continued to improve 10-fold each year it wouldn't catch up until around 2648. So, yes, in the long run DNA will probably become cheaper than tape. But in 10 years it will still be far too expensive for practical data storage. It looks like DNA needs around a 1M-fold improvement in synthesis cost in 10 years before it would be competitive with contemporary tape technology. Why is EMBL's model of tape costs misleading them by around 4 orders of magnitude? Some reasons are: They model tape costs as a series of migration events whose cost has a fixed part and a part that decreases according to a Kryder's Law parameter. Thus the long-term cost is dominated by the fixed cost they assign to a tape migration. They don't use discounted cash flow, which means that they systematically over-estimate the impact of these future fixed costs as compared to the up-front cost of writing the DNA. Their model assumes that the data is written to a single tape each time. But no-one makes tapes that small, so as time goes by they waste a larger and larger proportion of their media. In practice, data in long--term storage is aggregated to use the whole capacity of each generation of tape, so the per-byte cost of tape migration drops with the increase in capacity of the media, because it is amortized across an increasing amount of data at each migration. Aggregation thus means that there is no fixed component of tape cost, removing the dominant part of their cost model. Because their model doesn't use discounted cash flow it ignores not merely the time value of money but also the effect of organization's limited planning horizons . The comparison for a 1GB archive is between spending $7.5M the first year on DNA (and then nothing) and spending $0.12 the first year (and then $0.12 the second year, and ...). Even with a 1M-fold improvement, the comparison is between spending $7.50 the first year (then nothing) and spending $0.12 each year. Even ignoring discounted cash flow it would be over 60 years before DNA would be the cheaper option. Few organizations have 60-year horizons for return on their investments It might be argued that Glacier is priced as a loss leader. LT06 tapes hold 6.25TB. Thus if Glacier is LT06, 3 tapes at Amazon generate income of $750/yr but cost perhaps $300. Making our usual assumption, based on SDSC numbers, that media is 1/3 the 3-year cost of ownership, running costs are $200/yr. As I recall the SDSC numbers include routine tape migration, but let us assume they don't. If the tapes were kept for 5 years the income would be $3750, costs would be $1300, leaving $2450, or almost $500/yr for profit and migration costs. In the next decade DNA would need a miracle to be competitive with tape. In that time developments in solid state storage, such as today's paper in Nature from a Cambridge team's demonstrating 3D spintronic storage , are likely to be the best prospect for economic archival storage, especially given the likely changes in the patterns of access to archival data . Beyond that it is likely that DNA's inherent advantages of stability and replicability will eventually dominate. But any storage medium with high up-front costs and low running costs, such as DNA or our DAWN proposal , comes with a high economic barrier to adoption. Turning to this blog's other theme, academic communication, note that the Harvard paper was received for publication 20 June 2012, accepted for publication 7 August 2012, and published on-line 16 August 1012. The EMBL paper was received for publication 15 May 2012, accepted 12 December 2012, and published 23 January 2013. The EMBL authors submitted 5 weeks earlier but Nature's slower reviewing meant their paper appeared 23 weeks later. Of course, in fairness to Nature's reviewers, they had a lot more content to review. 
4039	Yes	 shescomplex : shonilane : femmefatalist : theatlantic : Here, but Not Here: Family Portraits Held Together by Skype We live in a world in which some of the people we are closest to are often not near us at all. When we document our day-to-day existence in photographs and Instagrams, these people are absent. Their presence in our lives is absent in our digital memories.  Photographer John Clang’s series Being Together  seeks to correct this. Using Skype and projectors, he captures families visually as they are virtually.  “In these images,” Clang told me over email, “I am marking the time for these families, enabling them to remember these strange moments of togetherness with the technology presently available. The picture doesn’t stop here, it lingers on in their memory. It embraces the intimacy and closeness of a family, no matter how far apart they are.” Read more. [Images: John Clang] This has me in tears. All the feelings. You’re not the only one. My life currently. I miss my family. Continue reading → 
4040	Yes	Online video is comedy, and as the market grows, comedians and indie TV creators are getting more buyers for their shows and videos. Today comedy network  My Damn Channel  announced a big effort to buy up “hundreds” of comedy shows over the next year. The company’s effort may make it, if not the first, potentially the biggest comedy network on YouTube, even as such “networks” have faced slew of criticism over the past few months. Still the announcement is sure to excite creators of independent web series. “We’ve always worked with top talent and breaking talent. We always will,” CEO Rob Barnett said in an interview. My Damn Channel is organizing this new effort under the My Damn Channel Comedy Network, and it has brought on Eric Mortensen as director of programming and acquisitions to manage it. Web series creators will recognize Mortensen from his time at  Blip , a site respected for revenue-sharing and cultivating a slew of beloved independent series, including dramas like  Anyone But Me   (WGA award-winner) and  Downsized  (WGA-nominated). The Network says it’s looking for “smart, adult comedy in many shapes and sizes,” Barnett said, including “LIVE, scripted, improv, animated, interactive, inventive, and especially anything where celebrity judges belittle people who sing and dance.” The company has a set up a simple website with more information on how to submit your work to the Network:  http://www.mydamnchannel.com/Comedy-Network . For the full article, click on over to  indieWIRE ! 
4041	Yes	 We often see studies of technology adoption by college students, such as those done by Pew . We know from our own classrooms and walking the campus that Pew's statistics that 96% of undergrads have cell phone and 88% have laptops, that 92% of students have wireless connection on some device, are reflected in our own observations. The general adult population is 82%, 52%, and 57% respectively. I wonder what the stats would be for humanities faculty? Lower than undergrads I suspect, but I wonder if it would be lower than the average adult. I don't think anyone would be surprised to discover that humanities professors spend more time with traditional cultural/media activities than the average adult or student: reading print books; going to museums, public lectures, and libraries; listing to classical music, etc. And obviously one should be able to live one's life as one chooses, including in terms of online connection. Given the nature of our profession however, particularly our professional freedoms, these personal choices then become professional ones. To a certain degree, all faculty have needed to come online in one way or another: library databases, email, online grading and student information, and to a lesser though still significant extent, course management systems. Clearly all faculty have internet access at least through their workplaces. But to what extent have we collectively embraced networked culture? Certainly not to the extent that we have embraced the modern culture that we continue to celebrate through our curriculum.  Why is this an issue? Let's say, for example, that I didn't really care for reading books. I would assign books for my courses because that was expected, but I didn't live a life where books were personally valued. How successful do you think I would be teaching print literacy? Teaching with digital networks requires a kind of literacy derived from a significant level of immersion. This is, I think, a real stumbling block for our profession in facing up to this challenge. And it's not just one decision that is crucial here, and I would agree that one can become overly and unproductively immersed in the digital world, but here are a few examples: Not wanting a smartphone or other mobile device because one wishes to be disconnected Not wanting to be involved in social media of any kind because they are trivial Not taking seriously conversations that take place primarily via the web, because that's not where serious conversations happen Viewing digital cultural activities from gaming to YouTube to any kind of user-generated content as crass commercialism not worthy of serious attention, as a kind of anti-literate, anti-intellectual space Viewing connectivity as an intrusion of valuable cultural activity, in the classroom or elsewhere.  Again, there are valid points of concern here and these are all acceptable individual decisions. I have no problem with someone living their life this way, but if one puts this all together then I think one ends up with a faculty member who is not well-suited to meet the challenges of preparing students to live in a world that the faculty member has renounced.  In the eLearning MOOC we've been talking about this in terms of Prensky's digital immigrants and digital natives. In my view this is an unproductive and even damaging perspective. Again, as with the utopian/dystopian discourse, perhaps the concept is to move people away from these positions. Reading the course discussion, there are certainly people who have arrived familiar with these terms and unhappy with them. (I would imagine anyone who knows something about these matters knows this is not a productive kind of thinking. It's akin to starting a composition class with grammar instruction because that's what the students expect, even though as an instructor you know that's not the right direction.) The immigrant/native business sets up a false dichotomy and reinforces an unnecessary conflict. If you identify the faculty as immigrants, then you are really taking a hostile position toward them. But more dangerously you are setting this up as a generational problem wherein the immigrant faculty can just say let the younger generation, the natives, do this work. But that's not what happens because this isn't about generations. It's about disciplinary culture. I have encountered plenty of mid-20s English doctoral students. Yes, many have cell phones and laptops and such, as you would expect. But very few see digital literacy or practices as part of their teaching or disciplinary work. Instead, they are adopting the cultural practices and values of their discipline, which is print-based.  English departments have always claimed that they are place where people go to become better writers. I have never believed that. I think English attracts students who are already good writers, and I think a literary and print-based curriculum can teach students to read particular genres in particular ways and write literary criticism with its specific discourse. Increasingly though, what is taught is a kind of monastic practice, one that clearly prides itself on its removal from the discourses of the marketplace and the larger culture. There is nothing wrong with monasticism.... for monks. However it doesn't have broad appeal, though there will always be some students who want that experience. We can't expect that there will be a generational shift that will lead to some eventual change in this situation. "Generations" are broad enough and the academic job needs are small enough, that there will always be potential hires and grad students to replicate these disciplinary values, just as there will always be people willing to live lives as monks.  And of course it's not just English departments. It's all of the humanities and perhaps beyond. That's just the corner of academia where I live. Ultimately, I think meeting the challenges of digita literacy will require university strategies for hiring and supporting faculty that work outside the disciplinary/departmental will to repetition.  
4042	Yes	 NBC aired doctored versions of a 911 call in the Trayvon Martin case, which led to an apology and several people losing their jobs in April. On Monday, MSNBC aired a video that seemed to show a grief-stricken man being heckled by pro-gun lobbyists while talking about his recently murdered son. via The Hollywood Reporter 
4043	Yes	 The Grand Canyon is yet another place that Google brings to your digital screens, from their Street View family of content. Google has been collecting street-level views of our world at a vast scale possible only because of it’s deep pockets and technical expertise.  Trekker is a wearable backpack outfitted with a camera system on top. It’s portability enables Google to gather images while maneuvering through tight, narrow spaces or locations only accessible by foot. The Trekker is operated by an Android device and consists of 15 lenses angled in a different direction so the images can be stitched together into 360-degree panoramic views. As the operator walks, photos are taken roughly every 2.5 seconds. See a view of the Bright Angel Trail . Read more at Google’s blog announcement . Trolley goes into museums. Google developed a push-cart system that could easily fit through museum doorways and navigate around sculptures. Here are views of  several museums Google has covered. Snowmobile was another hack, put together over the course of a few weekends (they say) using some 2x4s, duct tape, and extra hard drives wrapped in ski jackets to last through the freezing conditions. Motivated by the 2010 Winter Olympics, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada — the snowmobile mapped slopes and trails which fans would be seeing during the games. Trike is a three-wheel bicycle developed in 2009 for recording from parks and trails, university campuses, theme parks, zoos, monuments, sports stadiums, and the like. For these locations, which are often private land, Google signs a deal with the location. They have a submission form for new locations, which is highly overbooked. Cars were Google’s first step into street views, launching in 2007 with 5 U.S. cities, and now delivering 360° panoramic views from locations worldwide. Starting with an SUV, then a van, Google settled on a fleet of cars. The latest car has 15 lenses taking 360 degrees of photos. It also has motion sensors to track its position, a hard drive to store data, a small computer running the system, and lasers to capture 3D data to determine distances within the Street View imagery. A related project takes underwater panoramas, such as a view of Lady Elliot Island , QLD, Australia. Check out Google’s gallery of some of their best street view collections . Hopefully they will continue to connect more of our world. 
4044	Yes	James Cook University Library measured the outcome of removing some library jargon from their website. No surprise, things look positive: The Catalogue and the more meaningless Tropicat were replaced by Books, DVDs amp; more. Hits up 10% Bounce rate steady Reserve Online replaced by Readings amp; Past Exams. Hits up 100% Bounce rate down 25% Databases replaced by Journal Articles Hits up 90% Bounce rate down 60% (but meaningless as most links are to external sites in the old target page) Super happy they shared this. Read the full post at: Removing Library Jargon from our Home page – what Google Analytics tells us 
4045	Yes	 The William Blake Archive is pleased to announce the publication of electronic editions of  America a Prophecy  copies B and I . Ten of the fourteen extant copies of  America  were printed in 1793, the date on its title plate. Copy I, now in the Huntington Library and Art Gallery, is from this printing. The eighteen plates of copy I, like those of the other 1793 copies but unlike those of the later copies, were printed on two sides of the leaves, except for the frontispiece and title page (plates 1 and 2), and left uncolored. The plates were printed in greenish-black ink; five lines at the end of the text on plate 4 were masked and did not print, and plate 13 is in its first state. Copy B was printed in 1795 with copy A in the same brownish black ink on one side of the paper, with plate 13 in its second state. Unlike copy A, however, it is uncolored except for gray wash on the title plate. Now in the Morgan Library and Museum, copy B has a very curious history. Its plates 4 and 9, which were long assumed to be original, are in fact lithographic facsimiles from the mid 1870s produced to complete the copy. For a full technical description and history of this copy, see Joseph Viscomi, “Two Fake Blakes Revisited; One Dew-Smith Revealed,”   Blake in Our Time: Essays in Honour of G. E. Bentley, Jr . Ed. Karen Mulhallen. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2010. 35-78. Copies B and I join six other copies in the Archive, copies E and F (1793), A (1795), M (c. 1807), and O (1821), which altogether represent the full printing history of this illuminated book. America copy B, object 13, detail (© Morgan Library and Museum) America a Prophecy  was the first of Blake’s “Continental Prophecies,” followed by  Europe a Prophecy  in 1794, executed in the same style and size but usually colored, and, in 1795, “Africa” and “Asia,” two sections making up  The Song of Los . Fine and important examples of all three books are in the Archive. Like all the illuminated books in the Archive, the text and images of  America  copies B and I are fully searchable and are supported by the Archive’s Compare feature. New protocols for transcription, which produce improved accuracy and fuller documentation in editors’ notes, have been applied to copies B and I and to all the  America  texts previously published. With the publication of these two copies, the Archive now contains fully searchable and scalable electronic editions of 85 copies of Blake’s nineteen illuminated books in the context of full bibliographic information about each work, careful diplomatic transcriptions of all texts, detailed descriptions of all images, and extensive bibliographies. In addition to illuminated books, the Archive contains many important manuscripts and series of engravings, color printed drawings, tempera paintings, and water color drawings. Due to recent security concerns related to Java browser plugins, the Archive has disabled its Java-based ImageSizer and Virtual Lightbox applications. Users can still view 100 and 300 dpi JPEG images as well as complete transcriptions for all works in the Archive including  America  copies B and I. Text searching is also still available for all works in the Archive, and image searching remains available for all works except those in preview mode. In the coming months the Archive will implement redesigned pages that restore the features of ImageSizer and the Virtual Lightbox without the use of Java. As always, the William Blake Archive is a free site, imposing no access restrictions and charging no subscription fees. The site is made possible by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with the University of Rochester, the continuing support of the Library of Congress, and the cooperation of the international array of libraries and museums that have generously given us permission to reproduce works from their collections in the Archive. Morris Eaves, Robert N. Essick, and Joseph Viscomi, editors Ashley Reed, project manager, William Shaw, technical editor The William Blake Archive 
4046	Yes	 Editor’s Note: A few weeks ago Fulbright Fellow Zach Hyman   @SqInchAnthro  introduced readers to the world of low-resource creativity in China . In this post he takes us into a day in the life of a 3-Wheeled Vehicle-based Fruit Vendor. Below is a rich ethnographic description, giving deep glimpses into the detailed financial exchanges and intricate processes that unfold in just one day. Zach concludes his post with several reflections on the social interactions that hold a day like this together. Check out  past posts from guest bloggers .  __________________________________________ Introduction : My preferred method for researching  how owners use and modify their vehicles is engaging in participant observation by riding along and working with them. Once I am able to break through the barrier of convincing vehicle owners that I am not afraid of “getting my hands dirty” and am eager to help them work, the stage is set for a day filled with insights as I work side by side with users in context and see firsthand the role their vehicle plays in their lives. This particular ride-along came relatively early on in my research, where I had the privilege of riding along with a fruit vendors who uses their three-wheeled vehicle 1) to transport fruit from the market to the point of sale, 2) as a means of displaying the fruit to customers, and 3) a storage solution for the fruit when the vehicle is parked at his home at the end of the day. In this post, I explore the first of these uses. Click for larger version 6:50 AM : I am standing at the junction of the ShiQiao Bridge, in Chongqing, China. The sun is trying to pierce through the heavy morning mist. It is early October, I can barely see my breath, and the smell of diesel and exhaust begins to intensify with each passing minute I spend standing at this intersection of a tunnel and the 4-lane road that feeds into it. I am surprised at the lack of guidance provided to the lanes of merging drivers, and I stop keeping track after witnessing a dozen near misses. Surprisingly, there is not much honking, just labored, steady merging. I am not alone here – there are other people who have congregated at this natural pick-up point. Unlike myself, they are dressed for office jobs – two girls in matching formal uniforms and sporting gold plastic nametags. Another man wearing a loose-fitting suit, resting his black leather briefcase on the concrete divider as he leans against it on a piece of newspaper, eats dumplings held in a plastic bag. At 7:00 AM, a late-model Volkswagen Passat pulls up and the women jump in. The man continues to eat his dumplings. 7:15 AM : Exactly on time, Liu * pulls up in his 3wv, tooting his horn and flashing his headlights as he swerves out of the flow of traffic. I hop in, he stabs the accelerator, and we lurch forward, attempting to regain the pace the surrounding vehicles are maintaining before the road narrows and feeds on to the bridge. We barely make speed and I watch with trepidation as we merge into the flow, all to a chorus of the horns of adjacent drivers rushing to work. The radio is blasting the latest bad news about the Diaoyu Island row, and the section of sheet metal he installed behind the cab is whips and rattles in the wind and as we go over bumps in the road. I’m wedged up against the left side of the interior of the cab, my legs contorted to fit the curvaceous bubble-shape of the cab. 7:21 AM : During the drive to the market, he shares with me his plan to purchase a large amount of sugar cane next month when the crop is supposedly at its most sweet. He explains that people traditionally like to eat sugar cane during this month, though usually its consumption is limited mostly to children and younger people as chewing through the cane can be rough on one’s teeth. The approach to the market as seen from Liu’s vehicle – notice the queued trucks. 7:24 AM : We arrive at the entrance to the market, and come to a stop – directly in the flow of traffic. Liu leaps out and grabs his several cardboard boxes that contained the grapes he sold yesterday out of the back. I watch as he runs over to a large cargo truck also parked near the entrance that has a group of people wearing Uighur skullcaps standing around it smoking. While he’s speaking with them and handing them boxes, one of the market’s enforcers walks up to the cab and tells me to move my vehicle. I respond in Chinese that this is not my vehicle, and that the driver is behind me. They find Liu and tell him to move along, and that he can’t stop here to conduct his business. He knows the enforcer, though, jokes with him, and introduces me as “his American friend”. When Liu gets back into the car, he explains that the people who own the truck transport and deal with large quantities of cardboard produce boxes. He was able to get for 2.5 kuai per box (around US $.40) from them, which he says is a fair price. We pass through the market entrance, paying 2 kuai entry fee for vehicles to enter. 7:27 AM : We pull into an airplane-hanger-sized open building that deals exclusively in all sorts of grapes from around the country. The cocktail of pungent petroleum fumes from idling vehicles mixing with the sweet odor of grapes is actually not unpleasant. We walk through rows of different varieties of grapes, with Liu pointing out the relative quality and origins of each; purple grapes from Shanxi, Yunnan, and Sichuan, green grapes from Xinjiang, and so on. He complains because yesterday while he was able to get one jin (1.1 pounds) of grapes for 2.6 kuai (USD .43), today the best price in this section of the market is 3 kuai per jin, and he decides to search elsewhere in the wholesale section of the market where vendors sell directly out of their trucks in order to find grapes at the price and quality that he desires. While bargaining with one vendor, he calls me over to show how grape sellers tend to stuff wads of paper into the bottom of the plastic crates to occupy space and weight, and also how the smaller grapes tend to be piled in the bottom of the crates, because the larger ones are more attractive (even though it would make more sense to put the smaller and more easily crushed grapes below the larger ones.) While inspecting grapes, I see that he uses a small, plastic single-LED flashlight attached to his keychain to shine through the slits on the lower parts of the plastic crates as he tries to assess the quality of the grapes on the bottom of the crate. Actually removing the top grapes and sifting through the concealed grapes on the lower level is taboo, and besides creating more work for the vendors is a very explicit sign of distrust. 7:31 AM : Liu tries to bargain over the reselling of some plastic grape containers that he paid a 20 kuai (around US $3.20) deposit each for. He is unable to locate the original seller to whom he paid the deposit when last bought grapes several days before, and doesn’t have the space in the back of his vehicle to accommodate bringing the empty plastic fruit containers back with him. Now he’s trying to convince another grape seller to take the crates on the original grape seller’s behalf and refund him his 40-kuai deposit. Despite paying 20 kuai for each of the two crates he wanted to return, the seller (a fellow grape seller he’s bought from in the past) is only willing to give him 15 kuai for each crate, causing a total loss of 10 kuai. Tools of the trade: analog + digital; taken with Instagram 7:37 AM : We walk over to the small stretch of vendors selling dried goods such as fruit and nuts, located next to the grape selling area. Liu is interested in whether it would be worth investing in some chestnuts. After walking down the line, surveying inventories and asking prices (no wholesalers have their prices displayed on signs here, all pricing information is acquired through asking the vendor directly), he decides they are too expensive and we walk back to the vehicle. Dried fruit package designs, seen near the dried fruit wholesalers; taken with Instagram As we walk back to the vehicle, I glance at the inventory of one of the vendors who does not sell produce from across China, but rather serves the anticipated needs of the vendors themselves. The stand seemingly targets mobile fruit sellers needing to mend their vehicles, build simple structures, make signs, and perform the other key activities that make up their days selling around Chongqing. The store stocks items such as sugarcane peeling knives, pliers, metal wire, and all colors and sizes of plastic bags. It one can picture how the various items meet the vendor’s daily needs: electric scales for weighing produce, battery-powered loudspeakers for announcing one’s goods and prices for the day, calculators for displaying prices or bargaining, and so on. There is transparent packing tape, electrical tape, plastic string, a colorful menagerie of permanent markers, calculators, and, as everywhere, cigarettes. One of these vendor-centric stores stock more daily use goods as well, such as cold beverages and sanitary napkins. One of the stands stocking necessities for fruit vendors 7:50 AM : We encounter more container-related challenges: Liu is attempting to return more plastic fruit crates, but the plastic crate trader he is speaking with doesn’t want them. When I ask him why he wouldn’t accept them, he explains that each type of fruit crate is connected to a different vendor or company, and those who traffic and trade in boxes each have a particular company whose containers they prefer to deal with. This particular box trader was willing to buy back only three of Liu’s ten plastic crates. After unloading the crates, we drive on to another grape selling area in the back. Trying to offload crates As we try to navigate through the market to another grape-selling section in the rear, the vehicular pecking order seemingly enforced by the traffic controllers (and expected by the drivers) is that size rules the day, with smaller vehicles always defaulting to the will of larger vehicles.  As we drive through the market, out the window I see other fruit buyers are also using flashlights to inspect fruit like I saw Liu doing. I see several potential buyers inspecting oranges that are on the bottom of plastic crates, apparently to make sure of their quality. After much jostling, we arrive and Liu quickly parks and leaps out to go find his preferred grape vendor. 8:00 AM : After several minutes of intense negotiating, he manages to talk down a grape seller from whom he’s bought in the past from 3.6 kuai per jin to 3.4 kuai per jin, and we load up two crates of purple grapes into his vehicle. These grapes are of As we walk over to a different grape vendor, I reflect upon how the standard goods display in the wholesale market does not lend itself towards honesty. Usually, a truck-based wholesale vendor will be seated at a folding table placed at the base of the rear bed of their vehicle. They will sometimes allow interested buyers to sort through “sample” plastic crates of their produce to inspect for quality (unlike the vendors in the other section of the market), and after negotiating for the price and quantity they desire, one of the wholesaler’s assistants climbs up into the truck bed and selects the requisite number of crates. Once they have paid, if a buyer lacks the means to transport the grapes to their vehicle, their surname is written on the packing paper surrounding the grapes and they are set aside for later retrieval. The bosses (usually the truck owners themselves) write all transactions – name, quantity purchased, price paid – in ledgers resting upon the folding tables at which they sit. Some wholesalers allow you to take the crates that you have been inspecting, while others have employees take crates from the rear of their truck instead of the crates already displayed on the street. At one wholesaler of green grapes from Xinjiang with whom Liu is negotiating, they are using the latter system and he whispers to me he suspects they are doing a “bait and switch”. While they display high-quality grapes in the plastic crates on the street next to the back of their truck, once the negotiating wraps up, the boss forbids buyers from taking the crates displayed on the street level, instead ordering crates to be brought out from the truck bed and given to the buyer. When Liu takes a look at one of the boxes an employee has brought out from the truck, he points out the quality gap between the grapes on display in the street and the ones he has just been presented with from the rear of the truck. Although the wholesaler becomes incensed and tries to insult Liu, Liu calmly walks away. I ask whether he’s angry that the wholesaler just tried to cheat him. “No, I understand. Everyone hopes they can make just a little bit more money, but the only way to do that is to trick the next person in line from you. [You] can’t be mad if you get tricked – you can only try and be more careful next time.” I ask whether there is any system wherein a particular vendor’s honesty can be rated and publicly displayed. He says there is only reputation, but that he never goes back to a vendor who has cheated him in the past. 8:11 AM : As we try to leave the truck-based grape-selling area, we get bogged down in a traffic jam, and are paralyzed for around seven minutes. Finally, the driver who is boxing us in rolls down his window and we enter into a spatial negotiation of sorts. He wants to drive around the traffic jam, but needs to drive through us in order to do so. Were we to back up, that would create space for him to drive by us, and would in turn open up space for us to get out. Liu agrees to this proposed plan, and shifts into reverse, allowing the driver by. Liu then guns the engine and rushes forward to glide through the space the other driver created before it is filled in by the vehicle behind him. It feels as if we are stuck within a massive game of automotive Tetris. Gridlocked, and time for some spatial negotiation. 8:25 AM : We park in a different section of grape wholesalers, where buyers and sellers lean upon chest-high stacks of grape crates, using them as both tables for writing and planes upon which to lean and bang their fists while they bargain with one other. Crate stacks as writing surfaces, as well as forums for bargaining and other interactions. 8:33 AM : After buying more grapes, Liu asks a nearby vendor named Zhang (a fellow fruit seller) to drive his three-wheeler from where it is parked near the grape wholesalers around to a nearby pomegranate seller for him while he walks through a different area of the market. He does this because the route between the grape and pomegranate sellers has a lot of traffic, and he wants to inspect the fruit on offer from various sellers by walking by them instead of spending his time negotiating through traffic (and missing the opportunity to appraise the fruit on offer in this section of the market). 8:40 AM : After walking through a section of the market selling sugar cane and clementines, we arrive at a truck, the back of which is filled with crates of pomegranate. His friend, a fellow vendor (who also owns a 3wv and sells fruit out of it) has parked his vehicle nearby. As we approach up, the vendor offers us a pomegranate and cigarettes. We split the pomegranate between Liu, Zhang, and myself, and now everyone is smoking except for me. I realize later that Zhang was eager to do the favor for Liu of repositioning his vehicle for him because although Zhang owns his own three-wheeler, he has parked his vehicle outside of the market on this day to save himself the two kuai entry fee, as well as avoiding the trouble of driving all around to different places in the market, searching for parking, getting caught in traffic, and so on. Like Liu, he says his strategy consists of “[buying] whatever is cheap at the time that [I] think [I] can turn around for a good profit.” Due to their similar business models, as Zhang and Liu speak they ping each other for insight into what types of fruit fall within their shared criteria for price and quality. He sells in Jiangbei, the neighborhood across the Jialing River from Shapingba (where Liu prefers to sell). Today Zhang is relying upon Liu’s vehicle (and kindness) to transport the fruit he has bought from inside of the whole market to outside, where his vehicle is parked. 8:45 AM : Liu decides not to buy pomegranates, and we leave Zhang negotiating with the vendor and get back into the vehicle. At this point, traffic is starting to thin out in the market, and Liu tells me now is usually when most daytime vendors start to depart so that they can arrive at their sales positions by 9 AM. He plans on leaving soon, but wants to see the price of pomelo first. We drive to another aircraft-hanger sized building filled entirely with pomelo. The entire area is enveloped in a citrus-smelling cloud, mixed with the earthy odor of the straw upon which thousands upon which thousands of pomelo are are stacked into pyramids and walls. 9:01 AM : Liu spends several minutes walking up and down the nearly identical rows of pomelo, chatting with vendors and getting a feel for the various prices and quality. He takes out his scale to measure one vendor’s pomelo, as for some reason she does not have her own. This drives home the importance of an easily moveable and repositionable scale for vendors. Throughout the negotiation and weighing process, the moving of the battery-powered scale out of the rear of his vehicle and on to the ground to weigh out pomelo is simple and easy. 9:10 AM : Liu is seemingly closing in on a deal, when suddenly he is interrupted from his fruit buying by a call on his cellphone. He is arguing with them about money, fruit prices, and keeps mentioning a third party someone who “refuses to listen”. Exasperated, he asks me to guard the vehicle as he walks off, still talking into his cellphone 9:50 AM : Liu and Zhang return, accompanying a woman pulling a cart piled high with various types of fruit. Most of the fruit was Zhang’s that he had purchased throughout the morning before we met up with him, and Liu has accompanied him around to the vendors with a hired cart to see whether he wanted to buy any fruit from the same vendors to try and get a deal. We all help her load all of the fruit they have bought into the back of Liu’s vehicle. Afterwards, Liu has the woman transport the pomelo he negotiated to buy earlier from the vendor’s stand to his cart, and the woman quickly navigates the cart over to the vendor, loads the pomelo, and transports the citrus back to Liu’s vehicle. They pay the woman 3 kuai for her work, and she sets off again in search of more cargo to transport. The pushcart woman forms part of the logistics system for transporting fruit between the point of sale and buyers’ vehicles parked relatively far from the purchase point. Once outside of the market, Liu will help Zhang transfer his fruit from his vehicle over to Zhang’s, and then the two will part ways, with Zhang driving off to sell in his neighborhood of Jiangbei. Loading pomelo for delivery 10 AM : We check that all of the fruit and various crates and boxes are secured within the rear of his three-wheeler. He ties down loose boxes with bungee cords, and stretches one longer bungee cord over the rear gate. Satisfied that his cargo is sufficiently secure, we hop into the vehicle. “We’re running late,” he frets, gripping the wheel and laying on the horn as we try and negotiate our way out of the market, “we spent too much time buying fruit this morning, we’re going to have to come even earlier tomorrow.”   Thoughts amp; reflections: 1) Containers are time-consuming:  Liu spent a significant share of time in the market attempting to offload the containers his fruit came in – from selling his cardboard boxes to trying to get the deposit back on the multiple varieties of plastic crates in his vehicle. Between the amount of space they occupy in his vehicle’s cargo bed, the money needed to pay the deposit for them that could be used for buying fruit instead, and the numerous complications involved in trying to return them, plastic fruit crates are a salient pain point for vendors at this wholesale market. I’m surprised a system comparable to that of the cardboard boxes (buyers waiting at the market entrance) is not yet in place. 2) Buying fruit is complicated:  Besides consideration for what the fruit is contained in, purchasing the fruit itself is not a straightforward process. From finding a vendor offering the precise combination of price and quality that you require (or at least that you believe you can bargain down to the desired price point), to the need to personally and rigorously inspect for quality, to actually transporting the fruit from the sales point to your vehicle (a daunting proposition if you are parked outside the market, or the vendor is in a traffic-prone area), buying fruit in a wholesale environment is markedly more complex and stressful than buying it in a typical retail-level setting in Chongqing. 3) Time is money; trust is priceless:  Although his three-wheeled vehicle is the most valuable thing Liu owns and necessary for his livelihood, he did not hesitate to hand the keys over to Zhang and have him navigate through the crowded market while he went to inspect vendors’ inventories. This indicates several things; One is the high value of time to Liu (and, I imagine, all fruit vendors), for whom competition is stiff and every second saved in the wholesale market is another second spent selling on the street. The time Liu spent inspecting the inventories of sugar cane and clementine sellers on foot instead of extricating his vehicle from the gridlocked grape section was valuable enough to justify momentarily turning his vehicle over to Zhang. Two is the high level of trust that Liu places in Zhang – both morally to not drive away with his vehicle, and also in his skills as a driver to believe that he would not damage his vehicle. Three is the inadequacy of simply “driving by” a vendor’s inventory for deciding upon its quality, and Liu’s perceived need to physically approach a vendor’s stall to ascertain whether the fruit meets his requirements (though admittedly the need to approach on foot could also be due to the high-stress and attention-intensive act of driving within the market making it hard to do anything besides concentrate on not crashing). Considering these facts, I was surprised not to see vendors approaching drivers in their vehicles (particularly those stuck in traffic) with a “sample platter” – physical examples of the various types and qualities of fruit that they are offering for sale – with the hopes of attracting the drivers to their stalls. 4) Analog gt; digital:  Vendors keep purchase records in physical notebooks, and I did not see any evidence of creating a duplicate digital record. Potential customers are able to see the final price and quantity of all previous purchases on a page, setting fairly concrete guidelines for price negotiation by creating a record to refer to. This record is also important for buyers unable to immediately transfer their purchase to their vehicles, and for whom  the vendor must temporarily set aside their order. When wholesalers must handle hundreds of purchases a day, the “solidness” of a physical record and its incorporation into the purchase process minimizes the chance for mistakes. Nonetheless, the time will come where technology is sufficiently usable, reliable, and affordable enough to lead this wholesale market to effectively “go digital”. For a glimpse into how such data could potentially benefit buyers sellers, and customers alike, refer to this paper (or more succinct powerpoint ) by Professor Robert Jensen. Up next : Although I am in China to research how people use and modify their vehicles, equally important for understanding vehicles’ roles is studying how people behave when they do not have access to vehicles. As Oudshoorn and Pinch emphasize in “How Users Matter,” one should study how users operate without using a given technology to more deeply understand its role and importance. For example, what would Zhang have done in the above instance had he not met Liu in the market? What pain points would he have had to navigate as he transported his produce from various purchase points to his vehicle parked outside? How does a vehicle driver’s interaction with the market differ when the primary challenge he faces is not finding parking or negotiating traffic, but quickly and affordably transporting produce from multiple sales points to their vehicle? ________________________ Past Posts from Zach: Inside the World of Low-tech, Resource-constrained Creativity in China [Fieldnote Update] * Names changed 
4047	Yes	Dr. Roger Horowitz, associate director of Hagley’s Center for the History of Business, Technology, and Society since 1994, became its director at the beginning of January. Together with the former director, Dr. Philip Scranton of Rutgers University at Camden, Dr. … Continue reading → 
4048	Yes	In this second installment of our series “The Intern Files,” we hear from Ruby Harrington who has worked on a wide variety of projects in the Research Library this month. For the staff here, this has been a great opportunity to help mentor and train a potential future archivist! To college students like myself, the question, “Where are you from?” is posed quite frequently, by new friends, professors, and intern supervisors, to name a few. Well, in the last six months my answer has become a little more complex. Though I have attended the University of Delaware for the past two and a half years, my family recently relocated to Wilmington, Delaware, 2600 miles away from the Orange County, California town where I grew up. While I’ll always be “from” California, my growing affinity for Delaware – cultivated in many childhood trips to visit extended family, and of course my time at UD – in addition to my enduring interest in American history, led me to seek an internship with the research library at the Delaware Historical Society. Announcement for upcoming Emancipation Day Celebration, 1899 Archival work has appealed to me since my high school internship at the National Archives division of the Richard Nixon Presidential Library amp; Museum. To me, archivists are the unsung heroes of history – the people who preserve the “puzzle pieces” (historical documents and objects) so that they can be put together to form a complete picture. I have enjoyed shuffling through file folders and book boxes, both preserving and organizing the records, and getting a glimpse of a groundbreaking state’s story.  Since Delaware is so small, I often come across mentions of places that I have been.  For instance, I found mid-1800s notebooks from Woodside Farm, which is now a popular Hockessin creamery.  Days after I viewed the now-shuttered Bancroft Mills on a visit to Alapocas Run State Park, I stumbled across records from the Bancroft amp; Sons Company.  Incidentally, Samuel Bancroft served as president of Every Evening , a Wilmington newspaper – the post-Civil War issues of which I have referenced in an ongoing research project of Emancipation Day celebrations among the African-American citizens of Wilmington.  Through my internship with the Delaware Historical Society, I have both enriched my own understanding of the first state’s past and helped to ensure that Delaware’s story will continue to be uncovered. –Ruby Utility of Bancroft products in World War II, 1946 Swatches for determining official state flag colors. Produced by Joseph Bancroft amp; Sons, Co., 1954. 
4049	Yes	 Watch for these Superbowl Gamification efforts Today is Thursday. Thursday qualifies as “almost the weekend” and therefore brings us that much closer to Superbowl XLVII between the San Francisco 49ers and Baltimore Ravens on Sunday. As the biggest televised event in America, you can be sure you’re going to see some interesting commercial and marketing techniques that go beyond the standard big budget commercials we’ve been used to. Superbowl gamification will play a big role in a number of these efforts so keep an eye out for the following from now until the big game.     Target Opts for Game-Based Marketing instead of Commercials Why bother with commercials when you can make a game instead? Target took their budget and put it towards Snack Bowl, a mobile game playable via mobile browser and iOS / Android apps. The game involves you throwing branded snacks like DiGiorno pizzas to living room guests as they run across your room. As you progress, the game gets faster and harder. Players are also encouraged to share high scores in Facebook.   Coca-cola Crowdsources The Ending to Their Superbowl Commercial In what looks like an homage to a familiar Eastwood film, Coke will be running their Coke Chase ad that features cowboys, showgirls, and badlanders racing to reach their soda in the middle of the desert. At the conclusion of the commercial, all the people realized they’ve only reached a billboard that points them all into the direction of the soda and will be allowing the viewer to vote for who wins the race during the big game.   Budweiser wants you to name their Animals on Twitter Budweiser tweeted a few days ago asking their followers to name this  Clydesdale horse in their upcoming ad. People can tweet their desired name with hashtag #Clydesdale to give Budweiser their suggestions, although its unclear by how  Budweiser will actually choose a name.   Win an iPad from the NYTimes by Predicting the Superbowl The New York Times has created a gamified Superbowl survey  that challenges you to make a number of predictions and earn the most points among your friends. Players can attempt questions like guessing “how many times will Jack Harbaugh appear on television” and “what color gatorade will be dumped on the winning coach” and win an iPad if they’re lucky.   There are a number of other commercials using gamification principles, including Doritos , and Pepsi , but those and half of what I’ve listed here are all relient on the crowdsourcing mechanic and allowing them to choose an outcome. They may all be effective individually but looked at in aggregate like this, they are all remarkably boring and uninspired. Its not real engagement with the consumer because these are all so temporary and its hard to tell if your votes for all these crowdsourcing efforts even really matter. It will really come down to each of these brand’s execution strategy in making sure they let their fans know that their votes matter.  What do you think? Is everyone rushing to the second-screen concept with crowdsourced decisions going to be effective?   --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Superbowl Gamification Roundup: What to Watch appeared first on Gamification Co . 
4050	Yes	Faculty who believe in the liberal arts approach and who think this means that there ought to be some kind of firewall between what students study and what they do in their careers or anything else in their lives after graduation have a growing number of antagonists to contend against, most recently, several conservative governors who have announced that they will push their state’s public university system to eliminate or de-emphasize majors and departments that don’t have direct vocational objectives . I’m one of those faculty. I’m working now on a long essay about why I think a liberal arts approach is still the right thing for most of higher education, but here’s a shorter thought. Unlike some of my colleagues, I have no qualms about saying that a well-designed liberal arts education offers the best outcomes even in terms of employability–but “well-designed” in this case means, in part, that the connections between what you study and what you do in life must be indirect, flexible, and unpredictable. At least some liberal arts faculty tend to believe so fastidiously in that proposition, rising against any talk of usefulness or skills or careers, that they entirely cede the field of struggle to the most malicious and manipulative critics. And yet it is very rare to find a faculty member who believes so wholly in this understanding of the liberal arts that they reject any possible life outcomes for students which do not tie them tightly to academic or scholarly institutions. Virtually every faculty member I know delights in the wide range of careers that former students have undertaken, and treasures in particular any story of how some aspect of their experience as a student relates to their later work–even when a former student describes how work and life have called into question the relevance or accuracy of something that student studied in college. I understand–and share–fears about designing an undergraduate program of study which specifically anticipates a particular vocation or career. There’s one thing that I think we could do for our students (former and current) far more than we are doing, however. I don’t think it’s possible to convince the current wave of Republican governors that anthropology is not “a useless major” or that the problem of employability in the contemporary American economy is not a result of inadequate vocational training, largely because I don’t think the governors in question are genuinely trying to deal with underemployment or engage in a careful argument about what education should be. They’re returning to a favorite scapegoat, the useless liberal professors, and blaming them for structural unemployment in addition to all their other sins. But there are important actors that we can convince–or maybe support is the right word. Many employers are already convinced that a graduate who can write, speak and think well, who has learned to ask open-ended questions, who can find the tools they need to deal with problems both known and unknown, who knows how to know, is worth far more to them than the graduate who has memorized some rote procedures to perform on preset challenges. Now one problem might be that liberal arts institutions aren’t actually producing those graduates, and another might be that there aren’t enough students prepared to become those graduates. Yet another might be that there is some better way to couple the spirit of the liberal arts to practical or problem-based learning. Those are different issues. But what we could do is give those employers more reasons to believe that they’re generally right, to tell more specific, concrete or illustrative stories about how almost anything that a liberal arts student studies can have a payoff–sometimes in what that person does directly at work, sometimes in how they approach life and its catalyzing relationship to work. Not as a promise that a particular major has a particular utility, but yes, as a series of assurances of the generativity of liberal arts for the economy, for the society, for the world. Those stories have to be more than vague hand-waving or enigmatic koans in order to give sympathizers something to fight back against the push to reduce higher education to a meanly-imagined vocational core. Even specific vocational training needs something to suggest the unexplored possibilities, the unexamined norms, the reasons why and wherefore, all the more so in a moment of technological and economic disruption where no career or life can be taken for granted or seen as secure. To tell the many stories of the diverse consequences of liberal education to the many people eager or ready to hear them, professors and administrators not only have to be unashamed and unafraid of those stories but also be out there in the world more among our former students–not just the ones we’ve taught personally but the ones that all our colleagues have taught. Being out there means, sometimes, that we’ll hear about the students we confused or disappointed, about the unnecessary or unhelpful limits that our curricula imposed upon them, about the ways in which we haven’t always lived up to our own belief in liberal education. We need to hear that, too, alongside the stories which more closely fit our belief that it all turns out for the best. We need to hear it all so that we can speak those stories back–and help others to tell them as well. Staying above the fray when someone is sawing down your perch is a bad idea. 
4051	Yes	Question: Should you check for a file before attempting to include it, or just suppress errors? Calling file_exists requires stat ing it twice if the file does exist, so that could take longer. Answer: the file_exists pattern is more than five times faster than the @include pattern for a file that doesn’t exist, and not substantially slower when the file does exist. The test: amp;lt;?php$start_time = $end_time = $i = 0;$start_time = microtime( TRUE );for( $i = 0; $i amp;lt;= 100000; $i++){include __DIR__ . #39;/config.php#39;;}$end_time = microtime( TRUE );echo #39;Test 1: #39;. ( $end_time - $start_time ) .amp;quot; seconds \n\namp;quot;;//Test 1: 13.27784204483 seconds $start_time = microtime( TRUE );for( $i = 0; $i amp;lt;= 100000; $i++){@include __DIR__ . #39;/config.php#39;;}$end_time = microtime( TRUE );echo #39;Test 2: #39;. ( $end_time - $start_time ) .amp;quot; seconds \n\namp;quot;;//Test 2: 13.47793507576 seconds $start_time = microtime( TRUE );for( $i = 0; $i amp;lt;= 100000; $i++){@include __DIR__ . #39;/nonexistant-file.php#39;;}$end_time = microtime( TRUE );echo #39;Test 3: #39;. ( $end_time - $start_time ) .amp;quot; seconds \n\namp;quot;;// Test 3: 3.8437511920929 seconds $start_time = microtime( TRUE );for( $i = 0; $i amp;lt;= 100000; $i++){if( file_exists( __DIR__ . #39;/config.php#39; ) ){include __DIR__ . #39;/config.php#39;;}}$end_time = microtime( TRUE );echo #39;Test 4: #39;. ( $end_time - $start_time ) .amp;quot; seconds \n\namp;quot;;// Test 4: 14.759271144867 seconds $start_time = microtime( TRUE );for( $i = 0; $i amp;lt;= 100000; $i++){if( file_exists( __DIR__ . #39;/nonexistant-file.php#39; ) ){include __DIR__ . #39;/nonexistant-file.php#39;;}}$end_time = microtime( TRUE );echo #39;Test 5: #39;. ( $end_time - $start_time ) .amp;quot; seconds \n\namp;quot;;// Test 5: 0.74464702606201 seconds 
4052	Yes	 Thanks to Tim Tangherlini for the link to the Smithsonian story on the Lykov family of Russia who survived for forty years in Siberia without contact with civilization — they had fled deep into the forest to escape anti-religious pogroms by the Soviets. A nice addition to the story is the Russian documentary on the [...]
4053	Yes	"Väljarna" ("Elect") by Johannes Heldén : This responsive poem takes the concept of the cut-up and places it in a hauntingly beautiful interface. Based on an image of a wintry Swedish landscape populated by a single evergreen tree and blackbirds against a misty gray sky, this environment is filled with visible and invisible input cues for readers to click on and reveal the texts. The visible cues are the birds, which bring forth the poem suspended in the sky into readability, one bird and line at a time. The sky itself is a grid of hotspots that when clicked reveal a portion of a narrative prose poem in the black background of the earth. The sounds and understated movements of the mist, tree, and birds create a disquieting mood that suits the situation described in the text, one that is full of darkness, implications of violence, and a mystery that encourages readers to explore every surface in this work to get as much information as possible. Is this poem haunted by a similar zeitgeist as affected Robert Creeley ? Or Wallace Stevens ? 
4054	Yes	 The announcement below is from the  centerNet  email list. Registration is now open for Boston-Area Days of DH 2013: A Celebration of Digital Humanities Work in New England Northeastern University March 18-19, 2013 Keynote presentation by Matthew L. Jockers and Julia Flanders Timed to coincide with centerNet’s annual, international Day of DH, this two-day event will include: a grants workshop hosted by Brett Bobley (Director, NEH Office of Digital Humanities) lightning talks on DH projects from the Boston area featured presentations workshops on GIS, network visualization, and text analysis It will be a wonderful opportunity to learn more about digital humanities and DH projects in the greater Boston area, and to meet up with people from the region. For more information and to register, please visit:  http://nulab.neu.edu/events/dhdays2013/ Registration is free; please register by February 20! Please circulate widely! 
4055	Yes	HOW ARE YOU? WHAT ABOUT THIS IS WEB? 
4056	Yes	It’s my new blog, i put all texts in it! 
4057	Yes	I am seeing more and more articles in the media about text analysis and the digital humanities. Ryan Cordell used the platform of the amazing story of his children getting millions of FaceBook likes to get a puppy to discuss the digital humanities and he studies how ideas could go viral before the internet. (See the CBC Q podcast of his interview.) From Humanist I found a New York Times article by Steve Lohr on Literary History, Seen Through Big Data’s Lens . The story talks about Matt Jockers’ forthcoming work on  Macroanalysis: Digital Methods and Literary History  (University of Illinois Press). Matt is quoted saying, Traditionally, literary history was done by studying a relative handful of texts, … What this technology does is let you see the big picture — the context in which a writer worked — on a scale we’ve never seen before. In today’s Edmonton Journal I came across a story by Misty Harris on  If Romeo and Juliet had cellphones: Study views the mobile revolution through a Shakespearean lens . This story reports on a paper by Barry Wellman that uses Romeo and Juliet as a way to think about how mobile media (text messaging especially) have changed how we interact. In Shakespeare’s time you interacted with others through groups (like your family in Verona). Now individuals can have distributed networks of individual friends that don’t have to go through any gatekeepers. 
4058	Yes	 By Dr Peter Sefton(University of Western Sydney) with Ms Caroline Drury (University of SouthernQueensland). On Wednesday 5 th Dec I (Peter) visited the JapaneseDigital Repository Federation at their invitation and expense, to talk abouthow our respective repository communities are organised.  I’d like to thank the DRF for thisopportunity to make the brief trip to Tokyo. Caroline was invited but wasunable to make it. The DRF folks have put up a summaryof the meeting , in Japanese. Note that while my comments on that page arelisted as “CAIRSS” I was not representing CAIRSS (the CAUL (Council of AustralianUniversity Librarians) Institutional Repository Support Service), I attended asa member of the Australian/Australasian repository community. I also attendedthe DRF international conference in 2009 on a similar basis, when I did happento be associated with CAIRSS, so the organisers knew me. I did talk a fair bitabout CAIRSS, in the context of other projects in Australia. Before I went I polled the CAIRSS-list to find out if therewere any questions people would like answered – more on that below. First, a bit about me and repositories: I was the technical lead for the RegionalUniversities Building Research Infrastructure Collaboratively ( RUBRIC ) project which was hosted by theUniversity of Southern Queensland (and the de-facto project manager for severalmonths during the project establishment phase). I led a small team at USQ subcontracting to theARROW project during 2008, providing technical support to ARROW, and repositoryservices to small Higher Education institutions in Australia. I worked on USQ’s successful bid to host thefirst CAIRSS repository support service in Australia and acted as a seniorstrategist for the service, for example working on guides such as the one on howto get into Google Scholar et al , and negotiating major changes torepository infrastructure such as the closure of the Australian Digital Thesessearch service and its subsumption into the National Library of Australia’sTrove service. I was not involved in running the second version of CAIRSS from 2011-2012 but I haveremained part of the repository community in Australia and attended the 2012community day where I spoke about trendsin repository software in the context of organisational governance . I am on the conference committee for the OpenRepositories series of conferences (from 2011) – the call for papers for the 2013conference is just out . The DRF Shigeki SUGITA started off proceedings with a presentationabout the activities of the Digital Repository Federation . Perhaps the most striking thing from an Australasian pointof view is a staffing issue; talented repository managers are required bymanagement to rotate through a variety of library jobs meaning that there isconstant turnover and a lack of opportunity to specialise. There are similarpressures at play in our libraries I guess, with a need to train new repositorystaff, and significant turnover but not to the same extent. Japanese repositories are very much driven by an Open Accessagenda, which is quite different from the situation in Australia where twodifferent government measurement schemes collecting information aboutpublications and push repositories in another direction, more on that below. Another interesting dimension to the Japanese scene is thatthey have a number of consortial-repositories where anumber of institutions share a repository. This is an idea that came up inAustralia in the mid-to-late 00’s several times, but never got off the ground.It might be worth revisiting some time both for institutional publications repositories The presentation I presented from an earlier version of the ‘slides’ below– I have added some notes from the discussion and clarifying material. CAIRSS background Parent projects The Australian government made significant investments in institutional repositories via programs such as: APSR Australian Partnership for Sustainable Repositories (ended 2008) ARROW Australian Research Repositories Online to the World RUBRIC , Regional Universities Building Repository Infrastructure Collaboratively. These projects and other investments in the repository worldwere via these funding streams (for which the websites have disappeared): ASHER2 – Australian Scheme for HigherEducation Repositories [Sponsored the development of repositories in all HigherEducation Institutions in Australia] SII3 – Systemic InfrastructureInitiative [APSR, ARROW and RUBRIC] BAA4 – Backing Australia’s Ability We talked insome detail about how these funding schemes have influenced the establishmentof repositories; while the initial driver for Australian repositories was openaccess, the Excellence in Research for Australia ( ERA ) measurement exercise and its failed predecessor stalled the Open Access movement tosome extent, by requiring universities to collect non-open access materials incomplicated ways. CAIRSS v1 2009-2011 Coming out of the investments outline above, CAIRSS was established on  March 16, 2009: The first CAUL service was funded for two years, with the approval of Department of Innovation (DIISR), with monies remaining from the successful ARROW project, supplemented by CAUL member subscriptions. CAIRSS Structure CAIRSS v1 staffing This version of the CAIRSS service covered Australian universities, and was staffed with: A full time repository manager. (USQ) A full time technical staff member. (USQ) A full time copyright officer. (Swinburne) A part-time strategic advisor and other senior support. CAIRSS v1 approach The initial CAIRSS service included: Annual meetings with both a general and technical strand. Copyright workshops for private discussions of copyright issues. Maintained ‘sandbox’ instances of repository software. Creation and maintenance of web pages and guides on repository issues such as statistics, indexing and an extensive copyright guide. Provided direct support for government reporting processes – chiefly the establishment of the Excellence in Research Australia (ERA) exercise. CAIRSS v2 2011-2012 With added New Zealanders The second version of CAIRSS was funded from member subscriptions and expanded to include New Zealand: The second CAUL service is also funded for almost two years and incorporates many of New Zealand’s higher education institutions. With this expansion, CAIRSS now stands for the CAUL Australasian Institutional Repository Support Service. CAIRSS v2 Staffing This version of CAIRSS had a reduced team in the central office at USQ. One full time repository manager. One half-time technical officer. Part time senior manager. Part time copyright person at Swinburne. CAIRSS v2 approach The second CAIRSS service included: Annual meetings with a general strand. Discussion list for members only. Copyright workshops for private discussions of copyright issues. Maintenance of web pages on repository issues such as statistics etc. Provided support for government reporting processes (ERA) Post CAIRSS: CRAC 2013-? From 2013 CAIRSS will no longer exist – it is beingreplaced with a new service know as CRAC. I gather that the feeling of CAUL was that thecommunity is now mature enough to be self-sustaining. CRAC (CAUL Research Advisory Committee) NEW! from 2013 CAUL Research Advisory Committee (will undertake some of the work carried out by CAIRSSAC and COSIAC, from 2013) Program Research   Chair Heather Gordon (2013-2014) Members TBC CONZUL Janet Copsey (2013-    ) Practitioners TBC             http://www.caul.edu.au/about-caul/caul-committees CRAC anticipated activities Running the annual event Annual copyright workshop Maintaining the CAIRSS discussion list New Open Access group: AOASG There is a new Open Access group in Australia which is not part of the CAUL/CAIRSS family. From Danny Kingsley: The Australian Open Access Support Group (AOASG) was launched during Open Access Week in 2012. It is a consortium of six universities with open access policies  – QUT, ANU, Macquarie University, Newcastle University, Charles Sturt University and Victoria University. The group aims to provide support, lobbying and advocacy for open access in Australia. Membership will be extended to other research institutions and affiliates during 2013. http://www.aoasg.org.au   [NOTE the website is currently being built – may not be live yet] General comments about the CAIRSS/CRAC community Small task-force groups now self-organize The repository community is well established and members ofthe community run their own investigations into repository matters. These rangefrom asking questions on the list about repository practices, to running formalsurveys. An example from the broader CAUL community of which CAIRSS is a part isthe IR / Open Access Funding Survey by Danny Kingsley and Vicki Picasso. Opportunities DRF collaboration? From Caroline Drury: It would be interesting for CRAC to consider something similar to the DRF model  - eg at the beginning of each two year period, to meet and consider what projects could be done in the space, within Australia / NZ. Then perhaps a call could be put to institutions who could then (according to their strengths) be assigned to do that project in a collaborative model, using their own funds. I’m not sure if it would work here, given the big physical distances, but I think it’s a good model in a scenario where there’s limited funding.  I’m sure CRAC will consider this. April event in Tasmania An event is being organised in Tasmania in April around the following themes. Regional participating would be most welcome. From David Flanders at ANDS: linking research data and research publications re-architecting the repository (if we started now based on what we know). business metrics/analytics from scholarly systems research profiles and author identifiers emerging scholarly vocabularies, linkeddata amp;  scholarly search engines (beyond Google Scholar) APIs and bringing all these systems together via shared resources. Questions (with my notes) Natasha Simons at Griffith University had three questionsthat provided a great structure for the discussion part of the meeting. I triedto take notes (included below) as well as talk. 1. How’s the Memorandum of Understanding between   Digital Repository Federation (Japan), UKCoRR   and the UK RSP going?What sorts of things are of the most importance to all parties to share andexperience in this space? What sort of involvement has there been between thesigners to the MoU? How do they envisage this MoU benefiting all parties (particularly long-term)? InJanuary 2012 – DRF heard there were repo managers in the UK, they inviteda rep from RepositoriesSupport Project (RSP) in the UK.  Jackie Whickam cameto snowy Hokkaido, where they found out that RDF and RSP carried out similaractivities – eg the re-enactment of onlinediscussions wearing masks.  Afterthe meeting found out that there were many more things to share. Eg in the UK they carry out residential workshops. Meetingwith JW was about operational things between repo manager communities in UK andJP. Wanted to do more on activities to do with individual repositories. Mostimportant objective of MoU is to send representatives to counterpart meeting toshare more specifics. Since signed the MoU they havenot done so much. First thing was to invite a rep from UK to national workshop.UK rep was asked to give a presentation about how they promote activitiesinside universities. TheMoU says they will sponsor trips for each other (butthe Brits have not done their bit … yet :). RSP has just come to the end of itsfunding cycle. DRF hopes that even though there is uncertainly about fundingthe collaboration can continue. Funding is restricted to long term planning isdifficult. 2. Find out what you can about the NII Repositories Program -   http://www.nii.ac.jp/irp/en/rfp/   There are some interesting projects listed. How do they decide on the projectareas? Where does the funding come from? How do they decide on the actualprojects? Are they all 12 month projects? Are they all collaborative? How dothey share the results? CyberScience Infrastrcuture CSI hosted by NII – hasa selection board, informatics scholars amp; heads / top management of uni libraries about 10 members. 200 – 300 MYen Launch – circa 50 univerisitescirca 1M Yen Ramp; D (5-6 page proposal docs by multipleunis) – examples DRF (proposal by several unis) Sherpa Romeo – Japan Statistics About 30 submitted – 20accepted. Proposals ask for money nevergiven more, usually slightly less than proposed. Money goes to the unis asproject operators. Budgets split between the participants (training, workshops,system development, etc). Budget allocated on fiscalyear basis, CSI checks. Proposal made around March – decision around June– activities take place from June to March. Following June there is aresults project meeting in Tokyo – 2 day meeting (decreasing because thenumber of people launching has dropped. Initial 50 now 10). Sharing of results at Junemeeting, not much more than that. Some projects with strong outreach will be well known. Out of 20 –some projects faded out without much impact. Some projects that have donewell: DRF – The Digital Repositories Federation,my hosts. Sherpa-Romeo Japan. SCPJ – Society Copyright Policy in Japan– 600 societies almost all grey lit – a few are ‘green’ OA . ROAT – project to standardise repo statssame as PIRUS/IRUS Author – ID – (ORCID) participantson this are involved in ORCID. NII working on a trial basis to have a databaseof Japanese researchers. ShareRe – consortial repositories came out of Hiroshima . DSpace commonly used in Japan and EARMAS (original Japaneserepository software) There are 14 on a regional basis.Each one has a lead university acts as a host to provide system and support.   Hiroshima . Collect funds for future 14 members. 14 * 13K – 420K per kept inreserve, and used for security maintenance. Operated by regional council oflibraries, Hiroshima uni serves as sectretariat and hosts, additional funding come fromregional 30K Yen per year. Initial launch funds came from CSI – Hiroshimawas the first. 7 Member universities Kagoshima as lead. Initialinvestment about 2M yen do not collect funds for future rennocationcollectively 250 K pro rata per year contributed by member according to FTE UsrCom – Trialrepository system sandbox  -2008-2009 3. Are they ways we can communicate better with them? Do they hold any webinarson topics that would be of interest to us? If so, how do they tell people aboutthem? Could they tell us? I see they post to the JISC list every now and then(usually well-deserved achievement boasts). Should we have a ‘guest’ from DRFjoin our CAIRSS e-list or could they email you and then you post to our e-list? Don’t do webinars and they doeverything in Japanese so that’s a challenge. Does anyone on the CAIRSS listhave good Japanese? The DRF would like to have a member on the CAIRSS/CRAC list. Future of DRF not clear. (In Japan moves afoot tosubsidise societies as a way of driving OA) NO OA mandates from JP govt – rules being revised now so that theses can gothrough IR or must? Policy reads like must but we don’t know. May open the doorfor theses to publicised thru network. If this is realised there will be morepossibilities – need to think about metadata standards and talking tonational library. ) Next steps Once again, thanks to the DRF for having me – I amfollowing up with CAUL on how we might be able to collaborate further. Now thatwe are in the CRAC era, Caroline’s suggestion of having a ‘call for projects’that then get implemented at the member institutions sounds like it might be away forward, and an ongoing relationship with the DRF (and the UK RSP) would behelpful, as they’ve been down this road before. CAIRSS – CAUL Australasian Institutional Repository Support Service by Peter Sefton amp; Caroline Drury is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License . 
4059	Yes	 For more details on calendar pages or the Golf Book, please see the post for January 2013 .   Calendar page for February with a feasting scene, from the Golf Book (Book of Hours, Use of Rome), workshop of Simon Bening, Netherlands (Bruges), c. 1540, Additional MS 24098, f. 19v The opening full-page miniature for February (above) shows a continuation of the winter #39;labour#39; of feasting, albeit in a much more lavish setting than is typical of such calendar scenes.  In this miniature, a lord and lady are being served at table in a richly-appointed room; they are surrounded by attendants and are being entertained by a troop of musicians who are accompanied by a rather mischievous-looking jester. In the bas-de-page , a group of men in grisaille are playing at hoop rolling.  On the following folio (below) can be found the saints#39; days for February and the zodiac sign of Pisces, while the hoop games continue.  The games on this folio seem slightly more complicated and acrobatic than the previous (although we are not certain that #39;acrobatic#39; is the best adjective for what the two gentlemen on the right appear to be doing; as always, any suggestions or comments are most welcome!).   Calendar page for February with a bas-de-page scene of men playing at hoop-rolling, from the Golf Book (Book of Hours, Use of Rome), workshop of Simon Bening, Netherlands (Bruges), c. 1540, Additional MS 24098, f. 20r 
4060	Yes	 Ask Anything! Wherein you ask...anything, a.k.a. "Human Search Engine". A chance for you to ask a roomful of code4libbers anything that's on your mind: questions seeking answers (short or long), requests for things (hardware, software, skills, or help), or offers of things. We'll keep the pace fast, and the answers faster. Come with questions and line up at the start of the session and we'll go through as many as we can; sometimes we'll stop at finding the right person or people to answer a query and it'll be up to you to find each other after the session. If you don't ask questions, you get a stand-up routine, and poorly told jokes. (No pirates this year...) Facilitated by Carmen Mitchell, California State University, San Marcos. carmenmitchell at gmail. also @carmendarlene (Thanks to Ka-Ping Yee and Dan Chudnov for the inspiration/explanation, reused here in part.) 
4061	Yes	Réaction en direct (amusant tiens, pouvez vous lire les réactions du public en temps réel?) Si Faust est un mythe, Arthur et la Table Ronde aussi. Je veux bien me dévouer pour une analyse de Kaamelott… Façon aussi d’aller dans votre sens, et de souligner aujourd’hui l’importance des séries télés (au sujet desquelles un travail bibliographique, recensant les études, de plus en plus nombreuses, dont elles font l’objet, serait sans doute intéressant). A plus tard normalement, et excellente chose ce streaming (même si le son est un peu limite) 
4062	Yes	[...] This post was mentioned on Twitter by thiteu, PatrickPeccatte, Antonio A. Casilli, and others. Antonio A. Casilli said: quot;Pour une histoire de l’imaginairequot; (live) | L#39;Atelier des icônes http://bit.ly/6fqDpF lt;lt; 14 janv, 18h, en streaming sur Culture Visuelle [...] 
4063	Yes	super ! j’ai pu l’écouter ( et regarder un peu ) ce soir en photoshoppant. Passionnant et très jungien ;-) 
4064	Yes	Dear Professor, I’m Cláudia Linhares Sanz, predoctoral studant of Universidae Federal Fluminense, Brazil and I’m writing my thesis on experience of time and photography. I’m reading your thesis but unfortunately my French is not so good. I couldn’t get any English or Spanish translation in the Internet. I wonder if you have some articles in those language and if could kindly send me it. It would be very helpful in my research. I appreciate your help. Best regards, Cláudia Linhares Sanz 
4065	Yes	[...] [5] Voir André Gunthert, «Pour une histoire de l’imaginaire (archive)». [...] 
4066	Yes	 There are many things to like about Gandalf, but one that especially appeals to me is that he isn’t a wizard just because he was stolen away and adopted by wizards when he was a baby, or because another wizard bit him and sucked his blood, or some woman in a lake chucked a sword at him.  He didn’t find a wizard-making charm.  He’s a wizard because he learned to be a wizard.  He studied . And one of his most powerful wizardly talents is…he’s really, really good at archival research.  When faced with a very difficult quandary, where does he go? The library !  It’s a theme I’ve mentioned a few times over the years, both on my personal blog  and even in a unit of the Alternate Worlds Course .  To be a wizard, in a world where the massive collective brain is at your disposal, a key skill is knowing how to ask.  You don’t need to know everything, you just need to know how to learn what you want to know (and to identify what you really do need to know, and what feeds you when you learn it).  Sometimes that’s a lot tougher than just knowing would be. (We can’t leave out the part about Gandalf’s teacher turning out to be totally obnoxious and evil, and Gandalf defeating him in the end.  Doesn’t the student always have to defeat the teacher?) (My first-ever animated gif made from “scratch.”  I have to admit it was fun to fiddle with.) 
4067	Yes	 A while back, my edu-colleague Chad Ratliff asked me if I was interested in joining him in an effort to create a space for “independent” reporting and commentary on educational policy issues in the Commonwealth of Virginia. It was a terrific idea, and soon the Virginia Education Report was born. We had lots of grand plans for VER, including working with eager interns from UVA and/or VCU to create a go-to, one-stop-shop for education news and analysis for the Commonwealth. We got off to a flying start, but, eventually, the realities of our “real,” full-time jobs kicked in. The space sat inactive for almost a year. I’m happy to announce, though, that we are bringing VER back to life. We’ve given it a new look and some new (semi-automated) functionality. Right now, the main parts of the site are The Homeroom and The Lounge . In our  Homeroom  section we publish syndicated news and analysis about school politics, policy, and research. These articles are mostly syndicated from select newspapers around the Commonwealth. Currently, there are 8 or 9 feeds populating that space, and those feeds cover a decent part of the Commonwealth. There are, however, significant parts of Virginia that are not yet included, especially Fairfax County. As we discover more feeds, we’ll add them. The Faculty Lounge  is our opinion and commentary section, and—like the op-ed section of a newspaper—is editorially separate from our news section.  Here we’ll showcase the informed perspectives of leaders, teachers, parents, students, and other public school stakeholders. We aim to publish pieces that offer nuanced and personal insights into issues facing schools, teachers, families, and education policy. To those sections, we have plans to add a page that syndicates feeds from blogs of Virginia-based educators. That will take some time to build, and we’ll need a clever name. Perhaps “The Auditorium?” “The Media Center?” Also, we’ve added the great Rachel Levy to the VER team. She will help develop VER and will contribute semi-regularly to The Lounge. Please consider subscribing to the feeds from VER. We have a Twitter account and a Facebook page , too. If you have ideas and/or you want to contribute in some way to VER, please contact us through the site. 
4068	Yes	 Oh, coconut monkey, so good to see you again.
4069	Yes	   Click on image to go to the Interactive Map 
4070	Yes	   From  Tablet Shipments Hit Record Levels While Apple’s Market Share Declines 
4071	Yes	 Blog:  College Ready Writing When I first signed on to Twitter and started to get the hang of it, I was like I had finally found the community I had been looking for all along. I found educators who shared my values, academics who challenged me without condescending to me, and a support system I had never really had during my academic career. While I am not naive to the realities of the wild, wooly web more generally (I’ve read the comment sections on certain other higher education publications), I was surprised and relieved to find a group of supportive, kind, and generous people. I tried as much as possible to respond in kind, being as generous and supportive as I could be. I believe in Twitter karma, and I try to give back to my community as much as it has given to me. All that seems to be changing.   This has been on the minds of a couple of bloggers lately, such as Kathleen Fitzpatrick (and then a response from Tim McCormick and her response to him ) and Ryan Cordell (when he’s not off helping to save millions of puppies ). There seems to be a general malaise in the Twitter-verse around how we treat and interact with one another. It’s inevitably what happens when a medium becomes increasingly popular; new people start using the technology and the community grows and changes. But it#39;s one thing when you mom and/or dad gets Facebook (which is a reference that dates me a little, as I have a feeling that many people reading this are said parents); it#39;s another one entirely when your chair gets on Twitter. Some of these changes were inevitable, as early adopters move into new roles higher up the food chain, but as those who are already in positions of power get on Twitter, or those who seek to use Twitter to do things other than form community, things start to change, and not for the better. As the community grows, the shorthand we had all more or less naturally adapted and adopted gets misinterpreted and misused. We#39;re not sitting relatively anonymously in the corner, we#39;re taking up a more central role. And that#39;s hard to maneuver; I struggled with a similar shift when I moved the blog here at IHE. But, that move was made easier knowing that my Tweeps (largely) had my back. But something is changing. It#39;s still amazing to me how it is happening before our eyes and a number of us notice within the same small timeframe. Each incident might be completely independent from the others, but we all start noticing at the same time, something has changed. And then something unacceptable happened to a friend of mine . Tressie McMillan Cottom (who graciously wrote a guest blog here ) has had false accusations lobbied against her on Twitter that attacks both her professional and personal integrity. This is bullying, plain and simple, the kind of bullying, shaming, and silencing that happens far too often in academia, but has largely been absent in the academic discourse that took place on Twitter. Tressie has decided to fight these false allegations and these attempts to slander her. And, if you read the comments on her blog post, there had been a real outpouring of support for her from her community, wherever they may reside. I consider bringing more attention to what is happening my small contribution, my piece of support, to stand up and say: this behavior cannot stand. And what about all the younger aspiring scholars, many who are women and POC, who are now scared. What will happen to them if they try to engage public discourse? Will someone post a picture of them from high school? An old rumor about them from undergrad? Their deepest moments of vulnerability and shame? After working so hard on creating these spaces, how do we maintain and grow them, reassure young scholars that it is, indeed, worth it to reach out and engage with a larger group, across groups? This incident reinforces my fear that Twitter for academics is turning into academia in 140 characters, with the same power structures, the same petty politics, and the same rigid policing of speech and ideas. I think we, as a community, need to firmly take a stand against bullying. We cannot just rely on the institution (who, let#39;s face it, has allowed this kind of bullying to happen, but behind closed doors) for a long, long time. If we, as a community of connected academics, don#39;t stand up for Tressie and stand against this kind of behavior online, it will keep happening. Too many academics from traditionally unrepresented demographics have been silenced (through fear and intimidation) in the institution, and we cannot let the institution re-create that environment online. We staked out our territory on Twitter and blogs because we could find and use our voices, as well as find our place and support. As more and more quot;traditionalquot; academics begin to migrate to twitter, we need to be vigilant to this and supportive of one another. Twitter is no longer the proverbial Wild West, but we do not need to cede it to the “civilizing” forces looking to quantify, stratify, and remake it in their own image.  
4072	Yes	An article in today's New York Times provides a terrific example of how shifts in the mechanisms of distribution and consumption work over time to produce significant changes in the mode of expression itself. "House of Cards, which is the first show made specifically for Netflix, dispenses with some of the traditions that are so common on network TV, like flashbacks. There is less reason to remind viewers what happened in previous episodes, the producers say, because so many viewers will have just seen it. And if they don't remember, Google is just a click away. The show "assumes you know what's happening all the time, whereas television has to assume that a big chunk of the audience is always just tuning in," said Ted Sarandos, Netflix's chief content officer." 
4073	Yes	Libraries are increasingly taking a system-wide perspective of their roles and services. This can take different forms. Think of the close collaboration within the Orbis Cascade Alliance for example, where academic libraries in Washington and Oregon are moving to a shared systems infrastructure. Or think of the various initiatives looking at managing down individual print collections within a coordinated collective framework, WEST, for example. Or think of collaboratively sourced initiatives to tackle new service areas, Hathi Trust for example. Of course, in many countries there are publicly funded bodies who are charged with managing shared services, development work, or community Ramp;D. Think of how union catalogs or license negotiations are provided in many countries, or the role in national provision of some national libraries, or the national work of educational organizations like JISC in the UK. At the same time, libraries are looking to simplify their infrastructure requirements through cloud-based approaches. Think of the wide deployment of Libguides for example, or of the growing adoption of discovery layer products, or of the move to cloud based systems infrastructure (resolver, ILS). In each of these cases, libraries are looking at different models of sourcing their needs - collaborative, public, and third party respectively. They are also looking at doing things at different scales - shared with a group (e.g. Orbis Cascade Alliance), at national or regional level (e.g. Libraries Australia), or working with a supplier at the institutional level (e.g. cloud-based discovery layers). Sourcing and scaling now pose interesting policy and service questions across library services. Recognizing the importance of these questions, OCLC Research has organized some of our activity in a new program area to address them: system-wide organization . Our early work in this area has focused on the collective print collection , mining our data to provide community intelligence to support decisions about the future configuration of print collections. The influential "Cloud Library" report ( Cloud-sourcing Research Collections ) provided a framing context for this work, and was followed up more recently with Print Management at 'Mega-scale' , which is the first study of its kind, showing the geographic concentrations of collections. This work has been very purposefully connected with policy and organizational issues and we work closely with most of the major initiatives tackling this question. We have also carried out the largest study of circulation data to date, the OhioLINK Collection and Circulation Analysis , and are preparing a synthesis of those findings. Another strand of current activity is exploring through Worldcat how national literatures are represented in the global library resource, and a case study will be published soon. This focus continues our earlier work on mining Worldcat to reveal characteristics of the collective library collection (see for example our original analysis of the collections in libraries working with Google on digitization, or our analysis of the aggregate print book resource likely in copyright). While early work has focused on applying data analysis to policy and service questions, we are now working with individual libraries to think about the wider context of sourcing and scaling across the breadth of their work. Here is how we describe it on the theme's web pages: System-wide organization explores the shift from local provisioning of library collections and services to increased reliance on cooperative infrastructure, collective collections, shared technology platforms, and "above-the-institution" management strategies. At the same time, we examine the array of collections and services that are best provided at the level of the local institution. Our research agenda in system-wide organization aims to improve our understanding of the factors that guide institutions in their sourcing and scaling choices as they seek maximum impact and efficient provision of library collections and services. Libraries are embarked on a shift to greater engagement with the research, learning and development lives of their users, and reconfiguring space, services, expertise and infrastructure to facilitate this. Our agenda is being designed to provide examples and research findings which assist in this shift. Further Information: Related materials Constance Malpas. Cloud-sourcing Research Collections: Managing Print in the Mass-digitized Library Environment Constance Malpas, Brian Lavoie and JD Shipengrover. Print Management at 'Mega-scale': a Regional Perspective on Print Book Collections in North America Brian Lavoie and Lorcan Dempsey. Beyond 1923: Characteristics of Potentially In-copyright Print Books in Library Collections Brian Lavoie, Lynn Silipigni Connaway, and Lorcan Dempsey. Anatomy of Aggregate Collections: The Example of Google Print for Libraries Blog entries Sourcing and scaling Untangling the library systems environment (see discussion of scalar emphasis) Sourcing and scaling: the University of California OCLC Research Activity Pages System-wide Organization Managing the Collective Collection OhioLINK Collection and Circulation Analysis This entry adapts the introductory message in the OCLC Research Quarterly Highlights, Issue 7, October-December 2012. 
4074	Yes	Libraries are increasingly taking a system-wide perspective of their roles and services. This can take different forms. Think of the close collaboration within the Orbis Cascade Alliance for example, where academic libraries in Washington and Oregon are moving to a shared systems infrastructure. Or think of the various initiatives looking at managing down individual print collections within a coordinated collective framework, WEST, for example. Or think of collaboratively sourced initiatives to tackle new service areas, Hathi Trust for example. Of course, in many countries there are publicly funded bodies who are charged with managing shared services, development work, or community Ramp;D. Think of how union catalogs or license negotiations are provided in many countries, or the role in national provision of some national libraries, or the national work of educational organizations like JISC in the UK. At the same time, libraries are looking to simplify their infrastructure requirements through cloud-based approaches. Think of the wide deployment of Libguides for example, or of the growing adoption of discovery layer products, or of the move to cloud based systems infrastructure (resolver, ILS). In each of these cases, libraries are looking at different models of sourcing their needs - collaborative, public, and third party respectively. They are also looking at doing things at different scales - shared with a group (e.g. Orbis Cascade Alliance), at national or regional level (e.g. Libraries Australia), or working with a supplier at the institutional level (e.g. cloud-based discovery layers). Sourcing and scaling now pose interesting policy and service questions across library services. Recognizing the importance of these questions, OCLC Research has organized some of our activity in a new program area to address them: system-wide organization . Our early work in this area has focused on the collective print collection , mining our data to provide community intelligence to support decisions about the future configuration of print collections. The influential "Cloud Library" report ( Cloud-sourcing Research Collections ) provided a framing context for this work, and was followed up more recently with Print Management at 'Mega-scale' , which is the first study of its kind, showing the geographic concentrations of collections. This work has been very purposefully connected with policy and organizational issues and we work closely with most of the major initiatives tackling this question. We have also carried out the largest study of circulation data to date, the OhioLINK Collection and Circulation Analysis , and are preparing a synthesis of those findings. Another strand of current activity is exploring through Worldcat how national literatures are represented in the global library resource, and a case study will be published soon. This focus continues our earlier work on mining Worldcat to reveal characteristics of the collective library collection (see for example our original analysis of the collections in libraries working with Google on digitization, or our analysis of the aggregate print book resource likely in copyright). While early work has focused on applying data analysis to policy and service questions, we are now working with individual libraries to think about the wider context of sourcing and scaling across the breadth of their work. Here is how we describe it on the theme's web pages: System-wide organization explores the shift from local provisioning of library collections and services to increased reliance on cooperative infrastructure, collective collections, shared technology platforms, and "above-the-institution" management strategies. At the same time, we examine the array of collections and services that are best provided at the level of the local institution. Our research agenda in system-wide organization aims to improve our understanding of the factors that guide institutions in their sourcing and scaling choices as they seek maximum impact and efficient provision of library collections and services. Libraries are embarked on a shift to greater engagement with the research, learning and development lives of their users, and reconfiguring space, services, expertise and infrastructure to facilitate this. Our agenda is being designed to provide examples and research findings which assist in this shift. Further Information: Related materials Constance Malpas. Cloud-sourcing Research Collections: Managing Print in the Mass-digitized Library Environment Constance Malpas, Brian Lavoie and JD Shipengrover. Print Management at 'Mega-scale': a Regional Perspective on Print Book Collections in North America Brian Lavoie and Lorcan Dempsey. Beyond 1923: Characteristics of Potentially In-copyright Print Books in Library Collections Brian Lavoie, Lynn Silipigni Connaway, and Lorcan Dempsey. Anatomy of Aggregate Collections: The Example of Google Print for Libraries Blog entries Sourcing and scaling Untangling the library systems environment (see discussion of scalar emphasis) Sourcing and scaling: the University of California OCLC Research Activity Pages System-wide Organization Managing the Collective Collection OhioLINK Collection and Circulation Analysis This entry adapts the introductory message in the OCLC Research Quarterly Highlights, Issue 7, October-December 2012. 
4075	Yes	 Prosthetic Knowledge on Rhizome : Enda O’Donoghue ’s work presents a forensic interest in the medium and process of painting and an ongoing dialogue with the mediation of images through digital technology. Hovering between the realms of abstraction and representation, between the mathematical encoded and the organic, O’Donoghue’s paintings are the result of a process which is highly analytical and methodical and yet inviting of errors, misalignments and glitches. The imagery comes almost exclusively from found photographs sourced from the Internet, where O’Donoghue plays with random throw-away moments of everyday life, merging them together in various interconnected themes. In O’Donoghue’s work, the painterliness of his technique works with the disposable nature of his subjects to make the work sometimes poignant and melancholic, or alternatively brittle and harsh. His work is deeply influenced by our digital high speed reality and he transports these seemingly meaningless sound-bite images from a place of apparent futility to one that questions and searches for meaning through the transformative act of painting. 
4076	Yes	 Indianapolis Museum of Art analytics dashboard The current buzz and enthusiasm around data is difficult to avoid. Whether it’s the challenges of ‘big data’, the potential of data-driven techniques, or simply the power and clarity of data visualisations; data is inescapably entwined with much of what we do, and the systems and services we provide and use. Long before we were all swept up in this data euphoria, libraries have understood the potential and opportunities of collecting, managing and acting on the myriad sources of data they create through their systems and services. A recent survey of libraries by Mimas highlighted that the use of data to inform decision making was a top priority within the next 5 years . At the same time it is clear from Jisc’s Activity Data programme  that there is a lack of viable tools and services for libraries to effectively exploit the broad range of data available. A new project has just started at Jisc called the Library Analytics and Metrics project (jiscLAMP) which aims to enable libraries to capitalise on this data and support the improvement and development of new services (enhanced collections management, personalised services, tailored student support) and demonstrate value and impact in new ways across the institution (student attainment and satisfaction, identify changing research patterns, for example). Besides LAMP providing ample opportunities for nice puns around shining a light onto library data, the project will be developing a prototype shared library analytics service for UK academic libraries . Initially this is being envisioned as a kind of data dashboard, bringing together disparate data sets and visualising them in an attractive and meaningful way. The project is a partnership between Jisc, Mimas (at the University of Manchester) and the University of Huddersfield running until October this year when it will deliver a prototype service for use by the community. While the project will establish specific analytics use-cases for the data, the project intends to initially focus on services and projects such as Copac activity data , the Library Impact Data project , JUSP , and IRUS . As the project iterates through prototypes and use-cases so the depth and breadth of data sources and services will change too. Ultimately the project will be exploiting the potential that bringing these various services and emerging data sets together will have: unearthing new narratives and unforeseen connections. While individually these services and data sets are powerful, the opportunities for new insights and evidence grow exponentially as these data sets are brought together and interrogated as a group. So that was a very brief introduction to LAMP. At this point I was going to simply end this post with some of the aims and objectives of the project. But, instead I thought I’d do something a little different and give you a ‘vision’ and goals for the eventual prototype. Come October, this is what you can expect…. The vision of the library analytics and metrics project is to put data at the fingertips of librarians to improve student attainment and satisfaction and achieve new efficiencies and economies through innovative services and tailored support. To achieve this the project will meet the following goals : Provide insight : Will enable analysis that provides new insights which result in new services and practices providing additional value to students and researchers Diversity of data : Delivers data from a minimum of three distinct data sources to meet a range of use-cases such as, improving student retention and attainment, personalised services and demonstrating value Sustainable : Ensure the project is based on a sustainable foundation to ensure long-term support for the academic library community Community based : The service will enable the library community to do things together not possible separately. Through the community advisory group users will be in from the beginning, and the prototype service will engage a minimum of 8 institutions in the initial prototype If you would like to find out more then take a look at the project blog. (I realise the link above isn’t live… it’s there to keep you on your toes and will be live in the next few days!)     
4077	Yes	test publication billet 
4078	Yes	I’ve confirmed with a number of folks from UF that we’ll be attending THATCamp Florida on February 6 (just driving down and back the same day). Many others are still considering and working out schedules. With the event at UCF, this will be a great opportunity to meet with colleagues from around the state and beyond. In very, very exciting news, THATCamp Florida announced that the incoming President of H-NET,  Melanie R. Shell-Weiss, will be attending. Information on her and her brief bio is on H-Net : Melanie is an Assistant Professor of Liberal Studies at Grand Valley State University. Her current research focuses on immigrant recruitment, race relations, and transnational ties across the U.S. South, Latin America and the Caribbean over the late 19th and 20th centuries. This will be the focus of a book, _Translators Wanted in Dixie: Immigration and Race Relations in the Twentieth Century South_ (in progress). She is also currently working on an edited collection of essays, _Reconstructing America: Evaluating the Legacy of the Dillingham Commission on Immigration Reform_. From 2003-2006, Melanie completed a Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Department of History and Institute for Applied Economics and the Study of Business Enterprise at The Johns Hopkins University. She holds a Ph.D. in History (Spring 2002) and an M.A. in American Studies (Spring 1996) from Michigan State University. Among her recent publications are two books, _Coming to Miami: A Social History_ (Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2009) and a collection of labor history essays, _Florida’s Working-Class Past: New Perspectives on Labor from Spanish Florida to the New Immigration_, which she co-edited with Robert Cassanello (Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2009). It’s very exciting to see that Melanie R. Shell-Weiss will be at THATCamp Florida. This is certain to be an excellent event! There’s more on THATCamp Florida, including links to register, here: http://florida2013.thatcamp.org/   Best wishes, Laurie   
4079	Yes	I’ve long thought that a site like this should exist, so I’m very exited someone built it: Librarian Design Share . From their About page : After one too many design-related exchanges on Gmail and Google Chat, we decided that people who work in libraries really need a space to share their design work and gain inspiration from the work of others. In the spirit of Stephen X. Flynn’s awesome Open Cover Letters project, we wanted to create an open online repository of interesting library-related design. Take a poke around, there’s some solid stuff on the site. Nice work, April Becker and Veronica Douglas! 
4080	Yes	 Libraries usually have special computers set aside for catalog searching only. They’re often set up to block non-catalog websites, so you don’t check Facebook from the catalog computers. Unfortunately, the domain whitelists don’t always include all the enrichment services catalogs use, such as LibraryThing for Libraries , Syndetic Solutions , Google Books and so forth. (I discovered this recently at a local public library that uses LibraryThing for Libraries and Syndetic Solutions, neither of which functioned properly from the catalogs in the children’s section.) To address this I created the Services Tester , a simple webpage to hit from catalog computers. As illustrated on the right, it reports on which domains worked and which didn’t, so a library can make sure all the needed domains are open. Services tester for LibraryThing: http://www.librarything.com/forlibraries/testservices Other services: http://www.librarything.com/forlibraries/testservices/services I hope you find it useful! If you have other services to add, email me at tim@librarything.com. And if this gets you intrigued about LibraryThing for Libraries , check us out and email abby@librarything.com to find out more! Technical notes: Since catalog computers are often the oldest computers in the library, this has been tested down to XP IE6/FF3. This works by loading images from the domains (in an invisible div) and using a sturdy, cross-browser way of identifying failed images. I couldn’t find a cross-browser (to IE6) technique for scripts, without looking for their internals, so I found images at each domain. Subdomains vary extensively, either to split content across logical divisions or to thwart browser limits on concurrent downloads from a single domain. (In fact, of the library-specific services, only LibraryThing seems to do this. It makes a big difference.) To be sure services work, I recommend opening up all subdomains—except Google. If you open Google up all the way, catalog searchers will try to use Google’s main search page—and discover every link doesn’t work. 
4081	Yes	 Beautiful is better than ugly. Explicit is better than implicit. Simple is better than complex. Complex is better than complicated. Flat is better than nested. Sparse is better than dense. Readability counts. Special cases aren’t special enough to break the rules. Although practicality beats purity. Errors should never pass silently. Unless explicitly silenced. In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess. There should be one– and preferably only one –obvious way to do it. Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you’re Dutch. Now is better than never. Although never is often better than *right* now. If the implementation is hard to explain, it’s a bad idea. If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea. Namespaces are one honking great idea — let’s do more of those! By Tim Peters . 
4082	Yes	New Research Computing Site Launched | University of Florida Information Technology News news.it.ufl.edu/research/new-r… 
4083	Yes	The UF IT News announced the New Research Computing site: The 2011 expansion of UFIT’s Research Computing Department led to the recent redesign of its  Web site . The updated site now includes more content about services, an updated “look and feel” that matches UF’s homepage design, and better site security. “Our users provided a lot of input, and helped guide the design and content of the new site,” said Erik Deumens, Director of Research Computing and the High Performance Computing (HPC) Center. “We are always looking for input on new services that our researchers would like to see, and we welcome their suggestions.” The site should be easier to navigate for UF’s research community, with new features like an alerts panel and expanded sections on  proposal support  and services pricing. Security improvements include a new single sign-on page. When entering their password to access special Wiki pages and the bugzilla ticket-reporting system, users will see the new Web site framework, reconfirming that they’re working within the Research Computing Web server. The official URL is now  http://www.researchcomputing.ufl.edu/ , but  http://www.hpc.ufl.edu   will be maintained forever. To help with the transition, some of the more popular links from the old site are mapped to the new site, so bookmarks should still work. Please  email  Research Computing with any suggestions you may have about the new site. This is great news and shows UF’s commitment and incredible support for research computing, scholarly cyberinfrastructure, and all needs for research in the age of “big data”. In addition to the new site, Research Computing is one of the groups collaborating on the UF Data Management/Curation Task Force to ensure optimal socio-technical supports for research data needs. 
4084	Yes	 
4085	Yes	The latest monthly update of the Scholarly Electronic Publishing Weblog is now available. It provides information about selected new works related to scholarly electronic publishing, such as books, e-prints, journal articles, technical reports, and white papers. | Digital Scholarship#39;s Digital/Print Books | Digital Scholarship | The post Scholarly Electronic Publishing Weblog (January 31, 2013) appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4086	Yes	 
4087	Yes	 Although the traditional archive used to be a rather static memory, the notion of the archive in Internet communication tends to move the archive toward an economy of circulation: permanent tranformations and updating. The so-called cyberspace is not primarily about memory as cultural record but rather about a performantive form of memory as communication. Within this economy of permanent recycling of information, there is less need for emphatic but short-term, updatable memory, which comes close to the operative storage management in the von Neumann architecture of computing. Repositories are no longer final destinations but turn into frequently accessed sites. Archives become cybernetic systems. The aesthetics of fixed order is being replaced by permanent reconfigurability. Wolfgang Ernst . “Archives in Transition.” Digital Memory and the Archive . I was reading this and remembering Kevin Kelly’s idea of movage , and the idea of relay supporting archives from Janée et al. I really like the way Ernst works this idea into the way the Internet works, and the ways that the Web transforms the archival function. I’m only half way through the book, and will likely have more to say when I do, so just taking some notes for myself, carry on… 
4088	Yes	 Although the traditional archive used to be a rather static memory, the notion of the archive in Internet communication tends to move the archive toward an economy of circulation: permanent tranformations and updating. The so-called cyberspace is not primarily about memory as cultural record but rather about a performantive form of memory as communication. Within this economy of permanent recycling of information, there is less need for emphatic but short-term, updatable memory, which comes close to the operative storage management in the von Neumann architecture of computing. Repositories are no longer final destinations but turn into frequently accessed sites. Archives become cybernetic systems. The aesthetics of fixed order is being replaced by permanent reconfigurability. Wolfgang Ernst . “Archives in Transition.” Digital Memory and the Archive . I was reading this and remembering Kevin Kelly’s idea of movage , and the idea of relay supporting archives from Janée et al. I really like the way Ernst works this idea into the way the Internet works, and the ways that the Web transforms the archival function. I’m only half way through the book, and will likely have more to say when I do, so just taking some notes for myself, carry on… 
4089	Yes	To celebrate Black History Month, Hagley is making its film, Edward Loper: African American Painter, available to view online and to download without restrictions for educational and non-commercial purposes. Edward Loper, Sr., who passed away on October 11, 2011, was … Continue reading → 
4090	Yes	For a while now, Stanford University’s special collections have had the distinct honor of holding “ one of the largest historical collections of interactive software in the world .” The Stephen M. Cabrinety Collection in the History of Microcomputing at Stanford University consists of several thousands of pieces of computer hardware and software. At a recent advisory board meeting for the ongoing Preserving Virtual Worlds project, I was thrilled to hear from Henry Lowood, Curator for History of Science amp; Technology Collections and Film amp; Media Collections in the Stanford University Libraries, that Stanford had entered into a partnership with NIST’s National Software Reference Library to disk image and digitize related materials for a large portion of the collection. I’m thrilled to have this opportunity to discuss this project here with Henry. Henry Lowood, Curator for History of Science amp; Technology Collections and Film amp; Media Collections in the Stanford University Libraries Trevor: First, could you tell us a bit about the Cabrinety Collection? What’s the backstory? What is its scale in terms of numbers of items, date ranges, types of items, etc? Henry: The Stephen M. Cabrinety Collection in the History of Microcomputing was a gift to Stanford University. Stephen Cabrinety was a collector who began a very systematic effort to document the history of videogames while a teenager. Documents in the collection tell the story of his remarkably prescient vision of a historical collection or museum of the history of microcomputing.  He attended Stanford briefly, stopped out and unfortunately passed away at a much too early age. His family then was faced with the decision about what to do with his collection. His sister contacted Stanford based on her discovery of our Silicon Valley Archives while searching on the web, and we negotiated the terms of the transfer by gift in 1998. Note that this is a history of microcomputing collection, not a game collection per se, though probably more than 80 percent of the collection is console and computer games or related forms of interactive entertainment or education.  The collection covers the period from the Magnavox Odyssey (1972) to just before DOOM (1993); it includes a substantial portion of the microcomputer (including console) software produced in this period. We do not have an exact count for various reasons, but the number of software titles is in the neighborhood of 12-15,000, plus more than 70 platforms, other hardware, books, magazines, ephemera, and archival documentation.   First batch of Cabrinety Collection items on a shelf at NIST’s National Software Reference Library Trevor: Could you tell us about a few of the items in the collection that you think are particularly special, exciting and unique? Henry: I can answer this question from several different perspectives.  From a personal perspective, nearly every box I open from the collection catches my eye with an interesting strategy title or historical simulation — Avalon-Hill games like Nukewar or Chris Crawford’s early games or the amazing run of games from SSI during the 1980s. Another criterion might be rarity, and we find that games like Ultima – Escape from Mt. Drash or hardware like a Magnavox Odyssey in the original (unopened) box are in the collection.  Then of course there are the many classics in pristine condition from Atari, Electronic Arts, Nintendo, and so on, including versions of software such as VisiCalc (even a dealer demo) and Wordstar. Trevor: Could you tell us about the partnership with NIST? What is the plan? What is Stanford doing and getting out of the relationship and what is NIST getting? Henry: The plan is to image as much of the software collection as possible and add the images and hashes to the NSRL database.  In a nutshell, we will move through the collection beginning with the items on relatively familiar, more recent formats first (e.g., CD-ROM, 3.5” floppy diskettes, etc.) and ending with now unfamiliar formats from the 1970s, such as data on audio-cassettes.  NSRL will capture disk images from original media, along with photographic images of media, boxes and box inserts (manuals, registration cards, etc.); Stanford will provide the software, manage metadata, carry out quality control, and archive the images in our digital repository.  We will be able to compile success rates for data capture from the various media formats, and finally, we will contact rights-owners to request permission to provide access to items in the collection for which they hold copyright. Stellar 7, an example item from the collection, as part of the NSRL process disk images are created of the content on the disks and the packaging and manuals is also digitized. Trevor: You guys are going big on disk images here. Do you imagine keeping these as is or do you imagine migrating them in the future? Do you see disk images as a preservation format? Henry: First, I should say that I am using the term “disk image” in a very broad sense to include all formats in the collection.  This stretches the meaning quite a bit for cases such as cassettes or Atari 2600 cartridges. I do think that a case can be made for disk images as a preservation format, especially in combination with the NSRL approach to providing hashes based on verified copies of the original media. So, we will end up with images that have a good provenance trail and can be audited and serve as baselines for future data preservation activities.  I am more skeptical about disk images as the final mechanism for delivery of the software to collection users; however, first things first – we need to pull the data off these media that in many cases are well past their “use by” dates.  As your question suggests, it is likely that there will be other, derivative formats created from the images for delivery to patrons.  I could imagine, for example, delivery might involve installed, executable versions of software, perhaps in conjunction with environments under development elsewhere, such as the Olive Executable Archive. Clearly, much work — both technical and legal — lies ahead before we can deliver the content. Along with preserving digital content in disk images NSRL makes use of all this content by generating cryptographic hashes for each. NSRL publishes these hashes which are used for a variety of purposes to uniquely identify digital content. This image shows hashes for some of the files from the stellar 7 disks. Trevor: What is your plan for storing and managing the resulting digital collection over the long term? Henry: The collection will be stored and managed in the Stanford Digital Repository.  As a collections curator, I believe the important next step for us will be attention to item-level descriptive metadata, which in turn will require work on metadata scheme, ontologies, terminology, etc. I expect that will be the next big area for game preservation; following the technical work that has been done on data capture and emulation, metadata for search, discovery, citation, etc. is the missing link.  We are tossing around some ideas about how to address metadata and opening up the conversation with other institutions around the world with similar interests, such as the National Videogame Archive in the UK or the Game Archive Project group at Ritsumeikan University in Japan. Trevor: Aside from the value of being able to preserve the games, you had mentioned that you were excited about the project producing a data set on disk media failures. Could you explain that value? Henry: Keep in mind that nearly all of the Cabrinety collection came to us in pristine condition. We took off a lot of shrink-wrap!  This means that we have a collection of virtually unused, original media from the 1970s through the early 1990s.  By tracking the success rates of our efforts to pull data off these media, we will produce a unique data-set relating to their viable life-times.  This will not be a laboratory experiment with conclusions about media longevity based on tossing a disk into a microwave or stomping on it to simulate aging; it will be real-world data.  I am really not sure what to expect.  After all, many of the items are over thirty years old. Trevor: What is your ultimate vision for what you will do with the disk images of the games? Are you imagining making them available in a reading room? Or, do you have other ideas and plans for access? Henry: I wish that the answer to this question could be expressed in terms of my vision or even in terms of what our current technology can offer.  However, the reality is that intellectual property considerations will be a major constraint.  As I mentioned earlier, we intend to meet this problem head-on by engaging in a conversation with rights-holder and asking for permission to provide full access to data.  My guess is that some publishers and developers will be fine with doing that, and thus we will have good options for providing access to a portion of the collection. In other cases, we will be restricted, and reading-room access will be as far as we can go. With orphaned titles and other situations that are less clear, we have not decided yet what we will do.  Whatever the results, this project will give us a good opportunity to find out more about the willingness of the game industry to support game preservation activities, at least insofar as they are willing to grant permission to provide access to historical titles. 
4091	Yes	A journalist just asked me if there were any famous authors involved with electronic literature. I could have dropped a few names, but instead I wrote: There are, but revolutions in literature do not happen because famous people start using new technologies. They happen because of innovation that comes from young people, new authors, and new readers. Think about important literary movements – how many of them were started when already-famous authors changed their behavior? Maybe some of you can think of counterexamples in which literary movements were started by already-established literary figures. If so, I’ll stand corrected. 
4092	Yes	CNI’s recent fall meeting featured a project briefing on Force 11 ( http://www.cni.org/topics/scholarly-communication/force-11/ ), the group organizing this upcoming conference, which will be of interest to many in the CNI community: Beyond the PDF2 conference ( http://www.force11.org/beyondthepdf2 ) Tuesday, March 19, 2013 to Wednesday, March 20, 2013 Pakhuis de Zwijger, Amsterdam, NL Scholarly communication across all disciplines is changing profoundly under the influence of new technologies. New models, tools and standards are being developed that aim to enhance, enable or entirely replace formerly ingrained forms of scholarly communication, including publications, courses, conferences and policy. The Beyond the PDF conference brings together scholars, librarians, archivists, publishers and research funders in a lively forum, not just to broaden awareness of current efforts across disciplines, but to define the future through discussions, challenge projects, demonstrations and seeding new partnerships and collaborations. Individually and collectively, we aim to bring about a change in modern scholarly communications through the effective use of information technology. Beyond the PDF is organized by FORCE11 ( http://force11.org ), a group of stakeholders that arose organically from the first Beyond the PDF workshop, held at the University of California, San Diego, in 2011, and a follow on workshop held at Dagstuhl that same year. We will actively engage the membership of FORCE11 to shape and evolve this and future workshops, as the conference itself provides a platform for those interested in creating new modes of conference organization and participation. FORCE11 and the Beyond the PDF conference are supported by a grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. 
4093	Yes	En 2010, la Bibliothèque du Congrès a annoncé qu’elle archiverait le réseau social Twitter – l’ensemble des tweets émis depuis sa fondation en 2006. L’importance prise par les médias sociaux dans de nombreux aspects de la vie publique états-uniennes (et … Read more » 
4094	Yes	It’s Camover for Berlin CCTV Why is it that the Europeans are the ones doing really cool shit with gamification? Here in the states it seems a new gamified app is released daily in the hopes of getting each of us to run a little bit faster, stay a bit more organized, get our kindergarteners to read more, or increase our personal sales goal (exponentially in many cases). We are each in a constant race to improve ourselves, and we’re doing it with applications and objectives that would make Mr. Rogers and the Elders in the Church of Latter Day Saints smile. It’s all so boring. Europeans on the other hand tend to create quirky, often edgy games to get citizens to obey the speed limit, decrease the rate of public urination, or promote safer sex practices in young people. They’re jogging on a steady sprint toward better conditions for society at large. These games tend to be fun, involve entire communities and take players away from their smart phones into a gamified reality.  And when they don’t like what society is doing? Well then some decide to create a game to bring that society down. The Guardian recently brought to light a game called Camover in which activists fed up with Berlin’s (some feel) ubiquitous CCTV security cameras reward Berliners who put on a ski-mask, tear the controversial cameras off the walls, and make off with them. Players are given points for the number of cameras they destroy and for the level of creativity that goes into destroying them. To be graded by the anonymous creator of Camover players need to document footage of themselves destroying the cameras and upload them to a website. The most exciting aspect of this story to me was this statement from The Guardian : “We thought it would motivate inactive people out there if we made a video-invitation to this reality-game,” the creator of Camover (who wanted to remain anonymous) told me. “Although we call it a game, we are quite serious about it: our aim is to destroy as many cameras as possible and to have an influence on video surveillance in our cities.” “To motivate inactive people” and “Although we call it a game, we are quite serious about it” are the reasons given by nearly every person who uses gamification as a strategy to explain why they go this route. The prize for the individual winning Camover is a spot on the front line of a major protest to take place on February 16th. Winners get Status and Access. The overall prize for the people behind the game has been more attention to their cause. Whether it results in a backlash with increased sympathy for the police remains to be seen (it can’t be very pleasant to ride a subway car or walk alone on the streets of Berlin and see a group of aggressive masked bandits appear out of nowhere). When it comes to igniting people passionately opposed to the camera issue to get up from their seats and do something, it’s hard to argue that they weren’t engaged by this game. The creators claim to have snuffed out as many as 50 cameras since the game began a few weeks ago. However you may feel about people breaking the law to assert their agenda before the democratic process has had a chance to decide the issue, Camover is engaged in what may be a very effective guerrilla marketing tactic. In terms of the lessons for gamification designers, I see in Camover the intertwining of extrinsic motivation to boost hardcore intrinsic motivation, not replace it. I must confess however that my first reaction to this story was an open question -if this can work to encourage more people to engage in vandalism, might it be effectively used some day to encourage greater volunteerism and community service? I guess my goody-two shoes Mr. Rogers Americanness is showing its blindingly white capped teeth.  The creators of Camover meanwhile would probably argue that they are performing a community service. Volunteerism in a ski Mask. It’s the new black! Image by  Philos8 --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Berliner Activists Introduce The Gamification of Anarchy: Camover appeared first on Gamification Co . 
4095	Yes	We’ve been using Layervault at HubSpot for a week or so now. It’s a beautiful app, and has a lot of really nice UI touches. The first thing you notice when using the app is that it’s a good example of a flat UI…and the team has written about their thoughts on that . And while I applaud the minimalist aesthetic and the push toward eliminating elements from the interface (something good designers continuously do) I believe they’ve gone one step too far…they’ve removed labels from their navigation bar. Here is what it looks like: I have used this UI now for a week and I still have do a double-take each time I want to navigate. I’m not learning what the icons mean. The folder icon represents “projects”, which I can usually remember (but I think I remember it because it’s simply the first and default option). The second icon, a factory, is actually a link to the “Manage” screen, where you manage people and projects. This trips me up every time. (there isn’t hover text either…I find myself looking at the URL in the status bar to confirm where I’m going). My guess is that in an attempt to be as minimal as possible the designers removed every single thing except what they deemed truly necessary. This should be applauded! (and in general the design is excellent…I’m simply mentioning this because I noticed it right now) However, I think labels should be kept around in almost all cases as they turn guesses into clear decisions. Nothing says “manage” like “manage”. In other words, in the battle of clarity between icons and labels, labels always win. FYI: I’m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post Labels always win. appeared first on Bokardo . 
4096	Yes	 Journalists who don’t make the transition to become digital strategists won’t last in the field,  Miranda Mulligan  told a group of storytellers, web designers and journalists gathered at the  University of Miami’s School of Communications . Mulligan , now the executive director of  Northwestern University#39;s Knight Lab , returned to her alma mater this week to offer advice to students about how to work in media: “This is a competitive tech-driven field and right now technologists are beating us at our own game.” She went on to offer strong encouragement to students who plan to study both journalism and computer science. For them, Mulligan says, the last year of college is like entering a draft in baseball: news organizations are scoping out all the talent and combo journalists/technologists will be hired before they graduate. She offers these steps for journalists - or anyone - to learn to code: Step 1: Get Started Trying to learn programming online can be like going down a rabbit hole. The best way to dip your toes in is to start with basic code, invent your own problems and then fix them. Online sites like  Rails for Zombies ,   JavaScript for Cats  and  Mozilla’s Thimble  (a Foursquare for webmaking) can serve as a great resource for learning. 
4097	Yes	I found these notes in an old journal today. They are reflections on what could be considered another type of digital diet. That is, what happens when we can’t use electricity, upon which digital devices depend? The power went out the other day because of a really hard rainstorm that caused a tree to fall down over the power line at the bottom of the driveway. The tree was huge and rotten, so we think the weight of the water on the leaves finally caused it to fall over.  We couldn’t drive anywhere because the tree was blocking the cars in, so I spent the day at home listening to the rain drip down the chimney. I made a list of the things that you can and can’t do when the power is out. I found the list interesting because the can/can’t activities didn’t seem to fall into any rational categories, in the sense of one set being things that I prefer to do. For example, when the power is out, you can’t: toast bread, use the electric tea kettle, read at night, use a computer, connect to the internet, vacuum, blend with the blender, use the sewing machine, watch TV. When the power is out you can: kiss, talk, brush your hair, cook on the woodstove, eat a salad, laugh, run, look at the things growing in the forest, go swimming, chop wood, feed the chickens, write with paper and a pen. (The some what radical, but often interesting) James Howard Kunstler writes about how we tend to think that “the internet will save us” as energy becomes more scarce and if things become unstable socially. Because, we think, using the internet, we would be able to work, share information, stay in touch, etc. without leaving our houses. But, he points out, if “electricity is on the fritz” and is only on a couple of hours a day, or not at all for a week, then that would seriously hamper any thought to continuing a normal life via our computers. So, that’s some interesting food for thought.. 
4098	Yes	I’m giving the keynote at the third annual Medical Education Day at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. The talk is titled “Active Learning through Educational Technology.” Here’s the Prezi for my talk. You can click on the forward button to move through the Prezi as I presented it, or use your mouse to pan and zoom freely across the canvas. And feel free to click on any links you see for more information. 
4099	Yes	Like a lot of people, when I think about it, or when I’m reminded about it, I understand that the Web is a place where someone is always watching what you do. I understand that … but then I think, well … the Web is such a huge beast; such a vast ocean; such a giant metropolis where the comings and goings of individuals are insignificant. How and why would anyone notice what I’m looking at and which links I’m clicking on? Then up pops Tom Barnett from Switch Concepts Ltd. at a meeting yesterday to tell us that ‘Google has a file the size of an encyclopedia on everyone in this room.’ Hmmm … that’s not a particularly comfortable idea for someone to put in your head. I start to feel a vague sense of paranoia creeping through my mind. And then I think, c’mon Neil, pull yourself together! Google really doesn’t care who you are. They just want to put things in your line of sight that are more rather than less likely to get you to open your wallet and part with your wages!! Such were the thoughts that were buzzing around my head yesterday at an event organised by the Web Science Trust ( http://webscience.org ). The meeting was entitled ‘Observing the Web’ and the purpose was to highlight some of the work that the Web Science Trust and their partners and collaborators are doing to build a global network of Web Observatories providing an open analytics environment to drive new forms of Web research. We went round the room doing introductions and Dame Wendy Hall ended up branding us a ‘motley crew’. Academics, industry players, not-for-profits, technologists, funders, charities, a lawyer. (Quite a respectable looking motley crew in the very smart surroundings of the Royal Society I might add). But ‘motley crew’ felt about right for a topic and a collaborative, academic, open activity that is still exploring the territory and testing new ground. Presumably in contrast to the well-resourced, sophisticated and highly developed (but opaque) methods employed by the corporate observers of the Web (Facebook, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Yahoo etc.). The point of all of this ‘observing’ is not to try and take account of every little bit of data and content on the web, but rather to understand what the aggregated use of the Web can tell us; how trends and fashions and changes of behaviour in relation to the Web might illuminate aspects of our society and culture, both now and for future students and researchers. This was all of great interest to Jisc. We are currently working with the British Library, the Oxford Internet Institute and the Institute of Historical Research on an initiative that aligns very well with the notion of the Web Observatory. The Big Data project ( http://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/research/projects/?id=88 ) and the AADDA project ( http://www.history.ac.uk/projects/digital/AADDA ) are both using a copy of the Internet Archive’s collection of UK domain websites collected over the period 1996-2010, to examine new ways to engage with the web at domain level, and develop new forms of research that leverage the scale of the web. As the name of the Oxford project says … it’s all about using ‘Big Data’. This was work that emerged from influential JISC-funded reports commissioned in 2010 - Researcher Engagement with Web Archives http://www.jisc.ac.uk/whatwedo/programmes/preservation/researcherengagementwithWA.aspx As we heard at the meeting, the academic observatory is a very different proposition to the corporate observatory and comes with enormous challenges including: interoperability (how do we link observatories?); access (asides from Twitter which of the big corporates will let us use their data?); privacy (will people feel spied upon?); and sustainability (what is the business model?). A fascinating meeting and big topic. There will be more discussion in Early May at the ACM Web Science Meeting in Paris. http://www.websci13.org/registration/     
4100	Yes	A journalist just asked me if there were any famous authors involved with electronic literature. I could have dropped a few names, but instead I wrote: There are, but revolutions in literature do not happen because famous people start using new technologies. They happen because of innovation that comes from young people, new authors, and new readers. Think about important literary movements – how many of them were started when already-famous authors changed their behavior? Maybe some of you can think of counterexamples in which literary movements were started by already-established literary figures. If so, I’ll stand corrected. 
4101	Yes	I was recently asked to comment in an Associated Press story on the potential effect the lifting of the ban on women in combat might have on military-themed videogames. The story was picked up today by NPR and elsewhere. I had much more to say on the topic than I initially expected, and certainly more [...]
4102	Yes	I've just spent two days in Leicester for the 'The Shape of Things: New and emerging technology-enabled models of participation through VGC' conference at the school of Museum Studies, part of the AHRC-funded iSay project focusing on Visitor-Generated Content (VGC) in heritage institutions.There will be lots of posts on the conference blog, so these are just some things that struck me or I've found useful concepts for thinking about my own museum practice. I tweeted about the event as I headed to Leicester, and that started a conversation about the suitability of the term 'visitor-generated content' that continued through the event itself. I think it was Giasemi who said that one problem with 'visitor-generated content' is that the term puts the emphasis on content and that's not what it's about. Jeremy Ottevanger suggested 'inbound communications' as a possible replacement for VGC. The first keynote was Angelina Russo , who reminded us of the importance of curiosity and of finding ways to make museum collections central to visitor engagement work. She questioned the value of some comments left on museum collections other than the engagement in the process of leaving the comment. Having spent too much time reviewing visitor comments, I have to agree that not all comments (particularly repetitive ones) have inherently valuable content or help enhance another visitor's experience - a subject that was debated during the conference. A conversation over twitter during the conference with Claire Ross helped me realise that designing interfaces that respect and value the experience of both the commenter and reading is one of the interesting challenges in digital participation. She then used Bourdieu's ideas around 'restricted cultural production' to characterise the work of curators as producers who create cultural goods for other producers, governed by specific norms and sanctions, within relatively self-contained communities where their self-esteem depends on peers. However, this creates a tension between what curators think their role is and what museums need it to be in an age when museums are sites of large-scale cultural production for 'the public at large', driven by a quest for market share and profits. Visitor-generated content and the related issues of trust, authority, or digitisation highlight the tensions between these models of restricted or large-scale cultural production – we need to find 'a pathway through the sand'. Angelina suggested that a version of Bourdieu's 'gift economies', where products are created and given away in return for recognition might provide a solution, then asked what's required to make that shift within the museum. How can we link the drive for participation with the core work of museums and curatorial scholarship? She presented a model (which I haven't gone into here) for thinking about 'cultural communication', or communication which is collection-led; curiosity-driven; is scholarly; experiential; and offers multi-platform opportunities for active cultural participation, engagement and co-creation. Carl Hogsden from the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and University of Cambridge talked about the Reciprocal Research Network and moving beyond digital feedback to digital reciprocation. This project has been doing innovative work for a long time, so it was good to see it presented again. Jenny Kidd from Cardiff University posed some useful questions in 'VGC and ethics – what we might learn from the media and journalism' - it's questionable how much VGC (or user-generated content, UGC) has actually changed journalism, despite the promise of increased civic engagement, diversity, more relevant news and a re-framing of the audience as active citizens rather than consumers. One interesting point was the impact of the 'Arab Spring' on UGC - content that couldn't be verified couldn't be shown by traditional media so protesters started including establishing shots and improving the quality of their recordings. This was also the first of several papers that referenced ' Whose cake is it anyway ', a key text for conversations about visitor participation and museums and Jenny suggested that sometimes being seen to engage in participatory activity is currently possibly end goal in itself for a museum. She presented questions for further research and debate including: is the museum interested in quality of process or product of VGC and do creators feel the same? How does VGC fit in workflow models of museums? Giasemi Vavoula 's paper on 'The role of VGC in digital transformations in Museum Learning' was fascinating, particularly as it presented frameworks for audience engagement taken from learning theory that closely matched those I'd found from studies of citizen science and engagement in heritage and sport (e.g. cognitive engagement model - highest is theorising, then applying, relating, explaining, describing, note-taking, memorising... Good visitor experiences get most visitors to use the higher engagement level processes that the more focused visitors use spontaneously). I love learning from Learning people - in museum learning/visitor studies, social interaction facilitates learning; visitors negotiate the meanings of exhibits through conversation with their companions. Giasemi called for museums to weave VGC into the fabric of visitors social contexts; to scaffold and embed it into visiting experience; and to align with visitors and organisations' social agendas. In ' A Tale of Two Workhouses ' Peter Rogers and Juliet Sprake spoke of 'filling in the gaps rather than being recipients of one-way information flow', which tied in nicely with discussion around the role of curiosity in audience participation. In the afternoon there was a Qamp;A session with Nina Simon (via skype). A number of the questions were about sustainability, designing for mixed contexts, and the final question was 'where next from here?'. Nina advised designing participatory experiences so that people can observe the activity and decide to take part when they're comfortable with it - this also works for designing things that work as spectator experiences for people who don't want to join in. Nina's response to a question about 'designing better questions' - 'find questions where you have genuine interest in what the visitor has to say about it' - resonated with wider discussion about meaningful visitor participation. Nina talked about the cumulative effect of participatory work on the museum itself, changing not only how the museum sees itself but how others see it - I wonder how many museums in the UK are engaging with visitor participation to the extent that it changes the museum itself? Nina also made the point that you tend to have either highly participatory process to make conventional product, or conventional process to make highly participatory product, and that not everything has to be wholly participatory from start to finish, which is useful for thinking how co-creative projects. On Friday morning I gave a keynote on #39;crowdsourcing as productive engagement with cultural heritage#39;. I#39;ll post my slides when I#39;ve had time to tidy them up, but I partly wanted to problematise the power relationships in participatory projects - whose voice can affect change? - and to tease out different ways of thinking about crowdsourcing in cultural heritage as productive both in terms of the process (engaging in cultural heritage) and the product (the sheer number of items transcribed, corrected, etc). I#39;ve been going back to research on motivations for volunteering in cultural heritage, working on open source projects and reviewing discussions with participants in crowdsourcing projects, and I hope it#39;ll help people design projects that meet those altruistic, extrinsic and intrinsic motivations. Thinking about my paper in the context of the other presentations also got me thinking about the role of curiosity in audience engagement and encouraging people to start researching a subject (whether a ship#39;s history, an individual or a general topic) more deeply. On a personal note, this paper was a good chance to reflect on the different types of audience engagement with museum collections or historic sources and on the inherent value of participation in cultural heritage projects that underpin my MSc and PhD research and my work in museums generally. Areti Galani presented research she'd done with Rachel Clarke (Newcastle University), and asked 'how can accessible technology lead to inaccessible participation paradigms?'. I was really interested in the difference between quality of the visitor contributions in-gallery vs online (though of course 'quality' is a highly subjective term), a question that surfaced through the day. Areti's research might suggest that building in some delay in the process of contributing in-gallery could lead to better quality (i.e. more considered) contributions. The novelty of the technology used might also have an effect - 'pen-happy visitors' who used the technology for the sake of interacting with it but didn't know what to do after picked up the pen. The paper from Jeremy Ottevanger (Imperial War Museums) on "Social Interpretation" as a catalyst for organisational change generated more discussion on possible reasons why online comments on museum sites tend to be more thoughtful than in-gallery comments, with one possible reason being that online commenters have deliberately sought out the content, so already have a deeper engagement with those specific items, rather than just coming across them while moving through the physical gallery. Jeremy talked about the need for the museum to find an internal workflow that was appropriately responsive to online comments - in my experience, this is one of the most difficult issues in planning for digital projects. Jeremy presented a useful categorisation of online contributions as personal (emotional, opinion, personal information, anecdotes, family history), requests and queries (object info, valuation, family history, digitisation and licencing, offering material, access, history, general/website), and informational (new information, corrections) and looked at which types of contribution were responded to by different departments. He finished with a vision of the IWM harnessing the enthusiasm and knowledge of their audiences to help serve the need of other audiences, of connecting people with expertise with people who have questions. Jack Ashby talked about finding the right questions for the QRator project at the Grant Museum of Zoology - a turtle is a turtle, and there's not a lot of value in finding out what visitors might want to call it, but asking wider questions could be more useful. Like the wider Social Interpretation project, QRator always raises questions for me about whether museums should actively 'garden' visitor interactives , pruning out less relevant questions to create a better experience for other visitors. Rolf Steier and Palmyre Pierroux discussed their findings on the role of the affordances of social media and visitor contributions in museums. Rosie Cardiff talked about the Tate's motivations for participatory projects with audiences, and audience motivations for participating in Tate's projects. She presented some considerations for organisations considering participatory projects: who is the audience? What motivations for visitor and for organisation? What platform will you use? How will the content be moderated? (Who will do it?) Where will it sit in relation to organisational space online or in-gallery? How long will it run for? What plans for archiving and maintaining content beyond lifetime of project? How will you measure success? How will you manage audience expectations about what's going to happen to their work? This last point was also picked up in discussions about audience expectations about how long museums will keep their contributions. The final presentation was Ross Parry 's keynote on 'The end of the beginning: Normativity in the postdigital museum. Based on new research into how six UK national (i.e. centrally funded, big, prestigious museums) have started to naturalise 'digital' into their overall museum vision, this paper gave me hope for the future. There's still a long way to go, but Ross articulated a vision of how some museums are integrating digital in the immediate future, and how it will integrated once the necessary stage of highlighting 'digital' in strategies, organisational structures and projects has given way to a more cohesive incorporation of 'digital' into the fabric of museums.It also makes sense in the context of discussions about digital strategies in museums over the past year (e.g. at the Museums Assocation and UK Museums on the Web ( themes , my report ) conferences). I had to leave before the final session, so my report ends here, but I expect there'll be more reports on the project blog and I've saved an archive of isayevent_tweets_2013_02_01 (CSV). I think the organisers, Giasemi Vavoula and Jenny Kidd, did a great job on the conference programme. The papers and audience were a well-balanced combination of academics and practioners - the academic papers gave me interesting frameworks to think with, and the case studies provided material to think about. 
4103	Yes	As we move into the second half of our tenure on the Praxis squad, we are feeling the pressure to start actually making something. To that end, the SLab crew asked us to make a list of our priorities for Prism . Hopefully this will help us make a to do list in the coming weeks. The following was the list that seemed to come out of yesterday’s meeting, though it’s possible that other people could have gotten different impressions from the conversation. These seem to be our priorities, in no particular order except roughly that in which they were brought up: Types of texts – we’re interested in opening up the Prism framework to deal with pictures, music, etc. Getting a crowd – we want to get a large group of people working with Prism, however that might be arranged. Visualizations – we’re interested in expanding Prism’s visualizations to allow you to see the individual set of markings in relation to the crowd and to let you see one marking category’s visualization beside another. User uploads – we want to make it possible for users/instructors to upload a text for marking themselves, which we see as essential for classroom use. Complicating the sense of how we highlight – there has been discussion of complicating how the marking system works, allowing for a limit to the number of markings or a type of marking economy that is distributed across your selections to encourage different types of engagement with the data. Design makeover – we want to remake the design of the site with an eye to usability. I think my own priorities lie in making it possible for users to upload their own texts for marking and in possibly adding more visualizations. If forced to choose between the two, I would spend the time on making the tool capable of handling user uploads. As quickly became clear, any one of these goals spins off into dozens of other questions. What do we mean by “upload a text”? Will those texts be public? Private? How will we navigate copyright and fair use? In the coming days we’re aiming to get a sense of our collective ordering of the list. 
4104	Yes	 Physical bullying at school, as depicted in the film Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm. (Photo credit: Wikipedia) I’ve been following the ongoing conversation about civility on Twitter. Initially, I did not agree with the assessments about bullying on Twitter that I read from my colleagues. Then I read this article from Lee Bessette , yesterday: I think we, as a community, need to firmly take a stand against bullying. We cannot just rely on the institution (who, let’s face it, has allowed this kind of bullying to happen, but behind closed doors) for a long, long time. If we, as a community of connected academics, don’t stand up for Tressie and stand against this kind of behavior online, it will keep happening. Too many academics from traditionally unrepresented demographics have been silenced (through fear and intimidation) in the institution, and we cannot let the institution re-create that environment online. She was reacting to a recent post by Tressie McMillan Cottom , in which the latter details how a U of Chicago graduate student threatened her with blackmail. I’m as disgusted as Lee. As an educator, I’m a big believer in having my students engage in public discourse. But if Tressie, one of the most ethical and thoughtful public scholars I know, can have this done to her – what about my students? Should I continue to have them engage in work that shows up online when they – too – can be blackmailed by any bully who comes along? No, as Lee said, this cannot stand. I’m joining my voice to the calls already out there by Kathleen Fitzpatrick and Ryan Cordell  for a real discussion about what academic values we share on Twitter. While critique, and even heated debate, can (and should) be the hallmark of academic discourse, we can certainly engage in such debate and discussion in a reasoned and respectful manner. We can also support one another while disagreeing. Dissensus doesn’t mean shaming , it doesn’t mean name-calling, and it certainly doesn’t mean blackmail. I also think it is wise to separate the cultural reasons why something like this can happen from a technological determinism that would suggest Twitter is just another part of the internet and that the internet – as a technology – inspires meanness. As Matt Lewis points out (h/t Ernesto Prego ) Twitter began as a tool designed to introduce civility into discourse. But it has “become like high school, where the mean kids say something hurtful to boost their self-esteem and to see if others will laugh and join in. Aside from trolling for victims after some tragedy, Twitter isn’t used for reporting anymore, but it is used for snark.” As Fitzpatrick argues in  Professional Obsolescence , technology does not – alone – determine culture. “The author is not operating–and has never operated–in a vacuum ” Fitzpatrick argues, “but has always been a participant in an ongoing conversation. Some aspects of the interactions made possible by new network technologies may seem daunting or alarming to us today, but in the long run, used with care, they’ll provide significant possibilities for the kind of knowledge advancement we all seek, which requires a broad communal framework.” Fitzpatrick’s key phrase here is “used with care.” Certainly any technology can be used poorly. Art can be used for Nazi propaganda . Novels and films can be used to further the agenda of the Ku Klux Klan. Radio and television can be used to spread neo-conservative doctrine. The important thing to remember is that, while media impact us in ways that are unexpected, we can still make certain choices about how we use them. What “care” means is, of course, more difficult to determine. It may mean that situations like this erupt from time to time, and force us to discuss what it is we value as a community. It may mean adopting rules of civility. Yes, it’s not a good idea to police thought – but academic conversations already have norms and rules even if they are implicit. Most scholars won’t take arguments seriously that are not backed up with close reading, data, or historical evidence. We teach our students all the time to distinguish between so-called popular sources and peer-reviewed ones, and to not use the former in argumentative writing. I have requirements in my courses that no participant engage in ad hominem attacks, racism, classism, sexism, homophobia, or ableism. Why should we not hold ourselves up to the same standards that we hold our students? I fully believe we can build the kind of community we all value. The important thing is to not be afraid to stand for something. 
4105	Yes	The development of image matching functionality for the Bodleian Library’s Integrated Broadside Ballad Archive is one of those innovations which arise during a Jisc Programme. Often we do not make too much of these innovations. Perhaps we think that they are par for the course; a natural consequence of being involved in innovative programmes of work. Such an attitude can negate opportunities for enhancing impact far beyond the outputs of a project. People tend not to be interested in tools, unless they are directly useful to the work in hand, or have been developed for very specific purposes, but tools, though practical, might also change our perceptions of the world or how we think about a particular practice. This is the change we seek when we foster innovation. The Broadside Ballad project, working in collaboration with the Engineering Science Department of the University of Oxford, has developed something which could have profound effects on image research. Giles Bergel of the Faculty of English at the University of Oxford initially acted as Project Manager for the Ballads project. Here he, together with Andrew Zisserman and Relja Arandjelovic,  presents the potential that Image Match offers for enhanced bibliographies and for new scholarship in the Arts and Humanities. Of course developing a tool is only the first step, disseminating it for use is then requisite to allow take-up by others outside the institution where it originated, hopefully leading to onward development for new purposes.  That is why an early version of the engine is already open-sourced here The current programme will naturally lead to a number of innovations and these will be highlighted here over the next few months as two programme strands draw to a close and there is the final push of the mass digitisation projects to produce some very exiting digital resources. The Integrated Broadside Ballad Archive will launch on 23 February at the English Folk and Dance Society (EFDS). More details can be found here . Share and Enjoy • Facebook • Twitter • Delicious • LinkedIn • StumbleUpon • Add to favorites • Email • RSS 
4106	Yes	 tinker-tits : A paradox.  After turning the machine on, its only function is to turn itself off. this is disturbing Continue reading → 
4107	Yes	"BA-Tale" by Zuzana Husárová and Ľubomír Panák : This poem invents an origin myth for Bratislava (abbreviated BA, hence the title in English), cuts it up and scatters it like seeds into an interface designed to respond to reader interactions. The scattered words are gently drawn to the pointer until a word falls under it, which triggers the whole dispersed line to swiftly arrange itself, brightening into legibility on the canvas, and then dispersing and fading when released. This allows for an exploratory kind of reading, taking in a snippet at a time, as if one is hearing bits and pieces of the story as one travels in Bratislava. But the exploration doesn’t need to be haphazard: Husárová and Panák provide a trail in this poem’s psychogeography by gently lighting up the next phrase in the sequence. This, combined with sounds associated with a key word in each line encourages interest in the sequence, to discover a narrative and sound progression. A peek at the source code (right mouse click on the screen and select from menu) reveals well organized and documented source code with all 35 lines of the poem starting in line 82. This potentially allows others to remix the the work by changing its words and lines, placing other ideas into this structure. The aural component would require revision or disabling of the scripts which shouldn’t require advanced knowledge of Processing.js or MooTools . The trick is to preserve some the original work’s energy, which has the advantage of having been created along with this e-poetic form. My suggestion: experience the work as designed before reading the code. There are pleasures in discovering it through the interface provided, which enhances its wit. Note: When the work starts, allow the tight word structure to expand into the canvas before moving your pointer over it. I have noticed the work can freeze and become unresponsive if not allowed to start up properly. 
4108	Yes	I will be attending the Popular Culture Association/American Culture Association (PCA/ACA) annual conference in DC, March 27-30. Below is my paper abstract. Circuits of Interactivity: Videogames, Interface, and inFamous This paper examines the persistent description of user-media interface as ‘immersive’ and the implications for the study of videogames and digital media more generally. It takes [...]
4109	Yes	 I am part of a team putting together a International Conference on Japan Game Studies . We are organizing this with the Prince Takamado Japan Centre at the University of Alberta and the Ritsumeikan Center for Game Studies in Kyoto. The deadline for proposals is in two weeks. We are looking for papers on: Cross cultural study of games and toys Localization of games Assessment of educational aspects of games Preservation of games and game culture Understanding player culture Game industry (in Japan and transnationally) Games and transmedia phenomena Games of chance 
4110	Yes	Noted for my own future use: Unlike the engineer, and many doctors, and most theologians, the scientist need not choose problems because they urgently need solution and without regard for the tools available to solve them. In this respect, also, the contrast between natural scientists and many social scientists proves instructive. The latter often tend, as the former almost never do, to defend their choice of a research problem—e.g., the effects of racial discrimination or the causes of the business cycle—chiefly in terms of the social importance of achieving a solution. Which group would one then expect to solve problems at a more rapid rate? (Kuhn, Structure of Scientific Revolutions , 164). How much has this changed as funding in the sciences has moved away from basic research? Filed under: Digital Humanities , Theory 
4111	Yes	 Ritchie King for Quartz compared money spent on Super Bowl ads — now about $3.75 million for a 30-second spot — to how much the companies make on average in 3 and a half hours (the average length of a game). It's impossible to say exactly how much a successful Super Bowl ad ultimately earns a company. Surely the Wassup commercials were a huge boon for the Budweiser brand—but how huge? One thing is clear though: for the biggest advertisers, that $3.75 million is truly a pittance. In fact, some of them make almost as much in profits in an average 3.5 hours—roughly the time it takes to air the Super Bowl itself. Note that spending (on the bottom) is total between 2002 and 2011, and the vertical scales are different (so it probably would've been good to give more visual separation between the two charts), but still, kind of an interesting perspective. 
4112	Yes	                        At approximately 13:15 local time on 1 February...
4113	Yes	 In Waters Re~ artist Xárene Eskandar placed video of the same landscape at different times of day in parallel . They capture the subjective and perceptual qualities of time expressed as events, moments, memory and landscape. The goal is to break the linear experience of time, allowing viewers to perceive multiple times within a single viewpoint. As a result insignificant moments become significant events, heightening one's experience of the landscape and one's existence in that particular moment in time and space. The results are beautiful. [via FastCo ] 
4114	Yes	 Thanks to Blake Landor for sharing the CFP below. The full CFP and other information is available on the TLA site:  http://www.tla-online.org/events/conferences/tlaplenarycfp.html Theatre Library Association Plenary – Call for Papers 2013 Annual Conference of the American Society for Theatre Research-Theatre Library Association Dallas, Texas, November 7-10, 2013 THE BIG D:  BIG DATA AND THE PERFORMING ARTS The emergence of large digitized collections of humanities resources has made it possible to meaningfully address research questions that previously would have taken many lifetimes to answer.  However, theater historians have undertaken relatively little of this kind of work. Despite large datasets of digitized theater reviews, industry news, and production information [cast lists in Playbill Vault or Internet Broadway Database], theater scholars have by and large continued to do close readings of texts and events – and have not yet attempted what Franco Moretti has called distant reading:  analyzing not one small set of texts, but an entire corpus of digitized data. Some primary examples of large digitized datasets include the Google Books corpus leading to the Google N-Grams viewer, which allows researchers to trace the frequency of words and phrases over two centuries of printed text. An MIT project is currently mining repositories of digitized sheet music to uncover patterns in chords and melodic motions over time.  Virginia Polytechnic Institute and University of Toronto are tracking articles in historical newspapers published during the Influenza outbreak of 1918 in order “to understand how newspapers shaped public opinion and represented authoritative knowledge during this deadly Pandemic.” These projects employ methods similar to those developed for research in the sciences in order to expand our understanding of topics of primary interest to humanities scholars. This field is ripe for exploration.  Possible Plenary themes may include: Thought experiments designed to provoke project proposals Narratives describing completed or in-progress research Analysis of the existing digitized corpus of possible interest to theater scholars Critiques of the assumptions and methodologies of Big Data research in the arts and humanities Applications of cultural data in instruction Libraries’ role in access, storage, and distribution ————————————————————– Participants may wish to examine Franco Moretti’s book, Graphs, Maps, Trees: Abstract Models for a Literary History, as well as the Digging into Data funding program website [sponsored by numerous international granting bodies]:  http://www.diggingintodata.org/Home/AwardRecipients2011/tabid/185/Default.aspx Please submit a one-page Proposal as an e-mail attachment by February 15, 2013 to: Doug Reside, TLA Plenary Chair Digital Curator of the Performing Arts New York Public Library for the Performing Arts dougreside@nypl.org 
4115	Yes	I haven't been able to turn up an existing stop word list for Old English. Does anyone know of one? Thanks! 
4116	Yes	One episode closer to the century mark, Amanda, Dan, Mills, and Tom welcome Kathleen Fitzpatrick and Tim Carmody for a debriefing on digital developments at the annual meetings of the MLA and AHA and a discussion of the tragic suicide of programmer and activist Aaron Swartz . Links mentioned on the podcast: Dan Cohen, Digital History at the 2013 AHA Meeting Mark Sample, Digital Humanities at MLA 2013 MLA Commons Aaron Swartz (Wikipedia) Tim Carmody, Memory to myth: tracing Aaron Swartz through the 21st century Running time: 58:04 Download the .mp3 
4117	Yes	 On January 7th, my library and employer — the Pollak Library at California State University, Fullerton — launched our redesigned website after a three year ( yes, three years! ) comprehensive website redesign project. Why three years? We had just about every challenge possible thrown in our path. But that’s the subject for another blog post or two or three, when I hop back on to my library website redesign series. The finished product runs primarily on the OU Campus content management system by OmniUpdate, whose product is developed exclusively for higher education institutions. I will chat more about this product as I blog on specific features and use cases in our site, but this was not a CMS specifically selected by our library — it was chosen for us by campus, as part of an ongoing campus-wide website redesign. And it’s not a product I hear chatted about much in academic library circles. While many parent institutions might run OU Campus, I usually see their academic libraries running other CMSs — Drupal, WordPress, or a home-grown solution. Libraries tend to like to do our own thing,  but in defense of libraries, we do have services and expectations that frequently require us to go with a web publishing solution different from what our parent institution uses. Last year, our library also started working with Springshare — an industry leader in library web tools — with the launch of our LibGuides system in August 2012 after migrating away from our own in-house-developed guides solution. In December, we launched LibAnswers , their knowledge base and email reference product. Springshare’s customer service and support are simply excellent. Our new website mashes together OU Campus, LibAnswers, and LibGuides quite nicely (at least, we think so!). I don’t see many other academic libraires (running both OU Campus and Springshare) doing the same yet. You’re missing out! So I am demonstrating our process at the OmniUpdate User Conference in March, as part of the Customer Showcase . I also plan to blog some tutorials. Despite the use of OU Campus being a mandate from above, my library web team has been generally pleased with the product. As a web developer and systems administrator, I am thrilled with the quality and responsiveness of their customer service and technical support. As a  library  web developer, however, I have to admit that OU Campus does not fully meet the design and usability needs and expectations of library websites. IMHO, this is because libraries have been using, customizing, and raising the bar on CMSs far longer than higher education institutions — this is just the nature of our innovative and curiosity-driven profession. It’s also due to our professional preference for and experience with open source CMSs like WordPress, Drupal, and Joomla, which have active developer communities that have spent years making it easier for non-developers to use these products to build websites. WordPress, Drupal, and Joomla have rich libraries of widgets and plugins (modules in Drupal talk, extensions in Joomla talk) that make it very easy for non-coders to customize and extend their sites and content. Springshare’s products offer this same extensibility. So libraries expect this ease of functionality. OU Campus does not provide a similar experience. And this has frustrated me, and some of my fellow librarians, at times while developing our website. One quick example…with products like WordPress, LibGuides, Google Sites, and even horrid SharePoint, many of us CMS users are accustomed to being able to display an RSS feed on a web page by simply copying and pasting the feed URL into a widget (no coding necessary). OmniUpdate provides no similar out-of-the-box non-coding functionality — although their development team did late last year develop an add-on (at my request) to do this for PHP sites. However, OU Campus doesn’t provide developers with a toolbox of ready-made widgets and plug-ins. In OmniUpdate’s defense, and to illustrate their fantastic responsiveness and customer support, their development and customer service team has been actively listening to my requests for functionality this last year of our redesign. OmniUpdate wants to learn about and meet the needs and expectations of their academic library clients.  Also in their defense, I am guessing that the main contacts and decision makers at each of their client higher education institutions probably have not heavily partnered with their libraires when rolling out OU Campus…fortunately for my library, our key campus decison makers did enlist library involvement from the exploratory phase through development (a shout out to, CSUF!). I am confident that with help from their academic library clients, OmniUpdate’s CMS will certainly better meet academic library website expectations. So if you are part of an academic library whose parent institution runs OU Campus, hit me up! We have started a dedicated library discussion board on their Ning customer community site . And if your library runs LibGuides/LibAnswers and OU Campus (or is thinking of going with OU Campus), be sure to follow my upcoming blog posts and tutorials discussing our own process for integrating these solutions. If you are attending the OmniUpdate User Conference, stop by the Showcase. 
4118	Yes	 The full CFP is here and copied below for ease. ACURIL XLIII  SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO 9 -14 June 2013 International San Juan Resort amp; Casino KNOWLEDGE TERRITORIES: EXPLORING COMMONS ENVIRONMENTS FOR LEARNING, RESEARCH, CREATIVITY AND PRODUCTIVITY IN LIBRARIES, ARCHIVES AND MUSEUMS IN THE CARIBBEAN CALL FOR PAPERS, WORKSHOPS AND POSTER PRESENTATIONS Important Dates Submission of Abstracts                     15 February 2013 Notification of Acceptance/Rejection    28 February 2013 Final submission due                          29 March 2013 Early bird conference registration         28 February 2013 Conference period                              9- 14 June  2013 The President of the Association of Caribbean University, Research, and Institutional Libraries (ACURIL), Mrs. Cindy Jiménez-Vera, cordially invites you to submit your paper for conference, workshop or poster, the forthcoming conference to be held in San Juan, Puerto Rico, 9-14 June 2013. This Call for Paper, Workshops and Posters, to be presented at the Conference, is open to all information specialists including librarians, archivists, record administrators, museologists and educators in the field of information science, as well as information providers. Conference Program The theme of this year’s conference is KNOWLEDGE TERRITORIES:Exploring Commons Environments for Learning, Research, Creativity and Productivity in Libraries, Archives and Museums in the Caribbean.  As expressed by Madam President Jimenez-Vera, it is being observed that different types of libraries, archives and museums, from several parts of the world, are changing their environments and services to cater to the needs and expectations of their diverse clienteles. The Commons philosophy, which leads to the design of different environments to satisfy diverse user needs, appears to be propitious to stimulate individual and collaborative endeavors  to the exploration and creation of knowledge, and to provide a space to let the imagination and creativity grow. This conference is also designed to provide the spirit of Ubuntu, in order to closely explore the Commons philosophy, its application in our Caribbean information units, and to provide the strategies and tools for best practices.  It is our hope that the knowledge acquired from the lectures, workshops, poster sessions, among many other professional development activities in this Acurilean learning and practice community, will keep positioning our Caribbean information units in the frame of avant-garde international librarianship. Paper contributions to the program therefore can either have the purpose of knowledge dissemination and discussion (panel) or have the purpose of knowledge development; and/or skills training (workshop). In our effort to increase professional development for ACURIL members and members of affiliated library associations, we welcome workshop proposals that could count as Continuing Education (CE) credit. In addition, we are circulating a Call for poster sessions to showcase projects and research in relation to the conference theme. Objectives of the Conference This Caribbean event 2013, that brings together all Acurileans and other informationprofessionals, is a proactive educational exercise, with a dual purpose: First,  to explore in a collaborative manner the key elements, strengths and limitations, of the Commons concept, in its different dimensions, geared to provide spaces, for individual and collective study, research, creativity and productivity, in libraries, archives, museums and other information units; and, Second,  to examine together the possible effective implementation and development of Commons variants, in our different Knowledge Territories, using the evidence-based practice of the information professional.  The space to be provided for dialogue and collective discussion, will allow us to identify and evaluated different ways to approach the paradigm, designs, tools, action plans, required training of personnel, aiming to consider ways in which to adopt  new environments within our libraries, archives, museums and other information units, as Knowledge Territories, within our Caribbean region. This joint action will allow our libraries, archives and museums personnel to re-evaluate, refurbish, and stengthen its bases, within theoretical and practical frameworks, with evidences to support effective actions and, therefore, to be able to share the experiences in the region and in other international forums. Program Subthemes In order to achieve these objectives, the Conference will focus the following special themes, specifically related to the Knowledge Territories, that we identify as Libraries, Archives, and Museums, integrating variants of the Commons paradigm. Special Theme I. Knowledge Territories integrating the concept of Commons: Theory and Practice. Definition and development of the concept. Types of Commons in action and Critical evaluation: Information Commons, Learning Commons, Research Commons, iCommons, iKnowledge Commons.  Which are the possibilities for our Knowledge Territories in the Caribbean? Special Theme II .  Trends in physical spaces within the Knowledge Territories in the Caribbean, with the Commons integration; Observe variants, imagine, question, explore, think, design, reflect, share ideas, reconsider, redesign, create, reshare and celebrate. Special Theme III . Elaborate a strategic plan for the implementation and development of a Knowledge Territory in the Caribbean, integrating a Commons variant, using the evidence-based practice for information professionals framework. Special Theme IV. Training and profesional development of the personnel in the Knowledge Territory in the Caribbean, integrating the Commons concept. Special Theme V.  Knowledge Territories with Hybrid Commons in the Caribbean: Redefinition of user needs, on-site and virtual services, the strategic plan for development and evaluation, focusing and anticipating the diversity of interests nad preferences in the 21st Century, within our Caribbean basin. Basic Procedures •    Participants are requested, first, to submit an abstract.  Following acceptance of the abstract, authors are requested to submit a full paper.  Kindly see deadlines. •    All submissions will be reviewed by the ACURIL XLIII Program Committee and external reviewers. •    Papers will be both presented during the conference and distributed electronically to the conference participants. •    Abstracts will be printed in the Conference Program. Guidelines for abstract and paper submission •    Relevance of the contribution to the theme should be explicitly elaborated. •    Abstracts should have a minimum of 200-500 words •    Papers should have a maximum of 7000 words •    Both abstracts and papers should be in the prescribed format •    Abstracts and papers should be in one of the three official ACURIL languages, being English, Spanish, or French. Guidelines for workshop submission •    Workshop proposals should be submitted as abstracts (same deadline and format) •    The abstract should be explicit about relevance to the (sub)theme, the workshop/presentation objective, target group and format. Formatting •    Papers should be double-spaced, Times New Roman 12 point. •    Citations should use the 6th ed., of the American Psychological Association (APA) style manual. All abstracts and papers should include: title, name of presenter(s), employer and/or institutional affiliation, mailing address(es), e-mail address and telephone number. We are exploring the possibility of having a special journal issue or edited book with papers from the conference; hence, the emphasis on formal and uniformity in papers. Should you have any questions about your submission of conference papers and workshops, kindly contact us. Cordially, Prof. Cindy Jiménez-Vera ACURIL President 2012-2013 Prof. Jeannette Lebrón-Ramos General Rapporteur   jeannette.lebron.ramos@gmail.com Luisa Vigo-Cepeda, Ph.D. Chair, Local Organizing Committee   acuril2013puertorico@gmail.com Sarai Lastra, Ph.D. Chair, Publications Committee   sarai.lastra@gmail.com Kindly submit documentation to:   cindyjvera@gmail.com  ; acuril2013puertorico@gmail.com Kindly reproduce and distribute copies of this document to other interested persons. Por favor, reproduzca y distribuya copias de este documento a personas interesadas. Veuillez communiquer des copies de cette document a d’autres personnes intéressées. ACURIL 2013 PUERTO RICO   c/o Graduate School of Information Sciences and Technologies, University of Puerto Rico,  P.O. Box 21906, San Juan, PR. 00931-1906 
4119	Yes	Editor’s Note: This is a guest post by Sarah Brown. As an LIS graduate student at the University of South Florida, I have had group projects for at least one of my courses each semester. At first, I feared the idea of group work because we were all distance learners. How 20th century, right? I think of distance group work as important training for my future as a librarian. I imagine that much of my work will entail communicating with others via the Internet to retrieve information, share access to information, and archive in some capacity. Obviously, not being face to face can pose challenges, so learning to navigate the technology and maintain effective communication is a large part of modern librarianship. Whether you were assigned your group or you were able to choose your members, here are some tips and personal advice to guide you through to the presentation and/or final paper. Communication is the key to success. Find a platform where you can all meet—-whether through Skype, Google Plus, or a program like Elluminate, which is the platform I used most recently to meet with my group. If your school uses a learning management system, your professor can set up a discussion board and file exchange board for your group. Google Docs is also a good tool to use if you don’t have access to a learning management system. If the group is more than three people, you may want to partner up with one member to help with editing or accountability. Be aware that as distance learners, everyone will be working on a different schedule: some members may work days or nights, some may have school aged children, etc. Everyone has a busy life, which is why finding effective means of communication is so important. Review the assignment together and create a strategy. Come to a consensus on the assignment points, the group topic, and a timeline at the first meeting. Post this important information in the agreed upon shared space. Take 5 minutes in the first meeting for group members to share what they enjoy and excel at; match these preferences with the division of responsibilities.  Don’t be surprised if the usual power struggles emerge between dominant personalities. It’s all part of the learning process!  Regardless, someone should be the leader to ensure all members are meeting their goals and commitments. Just like everything, a little at a time goes the distance. As with any research assignment, start ahead of time. Be open to constructive criticism. I have been in groups that had great discussions during the editing process. I learn a great deal from others’ editing and I know I have to be open and ready to make changes. In the end, we all want an excellent grade! Practice using the platform software, recite out loud at home/work in front of others, and time yourself. If you have partnered up, you can call your partner and recite over the phone. Remember that even 30 minutes a day can make a huge have an impact on your work. Be sure everyone is on the same page with formatting and word processing. Trying to assemble a group paper with different word processing formats is maddening. So, keep it simple with one person fusing the paper and formatting for headers. Have group members use a plain text format instead of a template. When things go south with the group? As we all know, some groups click immediately, while others are more of a challenge. You will meet mature colleagues and those less focused than you. Remember that the semester is not that long, nor is the project. The professor is always there for direction, but try not bring petty issues to his or her attention unless you have exhausted all possibilities. For my most recent group project, one member was MIA for weeks until I emailed the professor. The professor emailed the missing student, who did appear. I have also double-checked with professors to verify information, which, if mistaken, can be corrected in enough time. Planning ahead remains very important. The smaller squabbles and conflicting viewpoints can be resolved much easier within the group if things are not left for the last minute. Rejoice in the groups that naturally gel and learn from the groups that challenge you. Both experiences refine us for future endeavors. What are your strategies for group work? Share your experiences about what worked and what did not. Be sure to include if you are a distance or on-campus student. Sarah Brown has been a photographer and researcher for over a decade. She is a graduate student at the University of South Florida Library and Information Science program as a full time distance learner. Currently, she is a curatorial intern for the Photographic Collection at the Norton Museum of Art in West Palm Beach, Florida. Filed under: Discussions Tagged: library school , LIS 
4120	Yes	 People with similar vocabulary sizes may vary significantly in their talent and in the depth of their understanding. Nonetheless, there’s no better index to accumulated knowledge and general competence than the size of a person’s vocabulary. Simply put: knowing more words makes you smarter. And between 1962 and the present, a big segment of the American population began knowing fewer words, getting less smart, and becoming demonstrably less able to earn a high income. – E. D. Hirsch, Jr., City Journal . 
4121	Yes	 Dans le cadre de l’opération de mise en tourisme du patrimoine culturel du Pays A3V 1 j’ai réalisé, en tant qu’ethnologue au sein de l’association  Paroles Vives , plusieurs collectages de la mémoire orale des activités drapières, de la minoterie de la Mure-Argens et de la distillerie de Barrême.  La campagne de collecte s’est déroulée du 28 avril au 30 août 2012. Vous pouvez écouter de nombreux extraits de ces enquêtes contextualisés sur le blog du projet Museoa3v Ce travail, limité dans le temps, n’avait pas la prétention de produire une analyse close de cette réalité industrielle mais d’ouvrir des fenêtres sur certains de ces aspects concrets : qu’avaient apporté ces entreprises pour la population, quel était le contexte social de leur implantation, de quoi héritaient-elles et qu’avaient-elles laissé ? Les témoins sont les descendants des propriétaires, des contemporains, des professionnels partenaires de ces entreprises, ou de jeunes professionnels héritiers des savoir-faire. Chaque récit d’expériences personnelles et de souvenirs familiaux illustre l’un ou l’autre aspect de l’activité industrielle : la vie quotidienne dans la minoterie, la transmission du métier, l’appropriation et l’intégration des atouts du territoire dans une activité, la recherche de la nouveauté, des évolutions technologiques. Chacune de ces pièces de mémoire personnelle est légitime car elle compose, avec toutes les autres, le portrait vivant d’une aventure humaine, de son territoire, de son époque et de ses valeurs. Trente deux heures d’entretiens ont été ainsi collectées et font partie aujourd’hui des archives du patrimoine commun. Elles sont déposées auprès de l’association Pays A3V, commanditaire du collectage, et auprès de plusieurs partenaires du projet pour sa conservation et sa mise à disposition : les archives départementales 04 , la phonothèque de la Maison Méditerranéenne des Sciences de l’Homme , le Musée de Salagon , le Service de l’Inventaire général du Patrimoine Culturel , les Communautés de Communes du Moyen et du Haut Verdon Val d’Allos. Les témoins participant aux entretiens ont donné par contrat leur autorisation pour l’utilisation de leur parole dans le cadre de restitutions muséographiques, culturelles et touristiques. Trente trois personnes sur seize villes et villages, de Barrême à la Foux-d’Allos, ont légué leurs souvenirs sur les entreprises de la région, l’utilisation de l’eau, les évolutions techniques, la vie quotidienne des campagnes des années 1930 aux années 1980. La grille d’enquête utilisée couvrait les trois domaines majeurs et leurs liens professionnels : distillerie et culture de lavande, minoterie, production de céréales et activité de boulangerie, draperie et élevage ovin. Très vite les commentaires des personnes ont révélé une imbrication étroite entre les espaces professionnels. Chacun, chacune avait une expérience plus ou moins lointaine de ces professions, les familles allant souvent de l’une à l’autre pour trouver les revenus nécessaires au foyer. Dans l’ensemble des récits les thèmes de l’évolution des techniques, de l’ingéniosité et de la créativité dominent largement. Ces souvenirs d’activité sont, pour les témoins, l’occasion d’exposer une réalité rurale difficile pour leurs parents au début du 20ème siècle jusque dans les années 1960 même si leurs souvenirs d’enfance sont colorés d’une sensation plus sereine que la vie aujourd’hui. Ils se situent néanmoins dans un contexte social de travail incessant, sans congé, pour un résultat toujours précaire, permettant tout juste de subvenir aux besoins élémentaires. Les plus modestes louaient leur force de travail dans les travaux agricoles, ceux de la terre, des bêtes et du bois et, lorsqu’ils le pouvaient, entretenaient leurs maigres hectares. Ainsi, l’apparition d’entreprises, même de petite taille, représentait une embauche plus pérenne et un salariat régulier pour des dizaines de personnes et la sécurité de leur famille. Les héritiers de ces entrepreneurs nous ont raconté l’investissement financier et l’intérêt de leurs aïeux pour les avancées technologiques, leur formation, leurs relations avec la population. Cette première campagne de collectage révèle une disposition certaine des témoins à penser leur région sur une longue période de développement et de transitions. Entre l’ élevage et la culture comme uniques moyens de subsistance, les villages ont connu les bouleversements des deux guerres, des expériences industrielles, de leur fermeture, des métamorphoses du tourisme (de luxe puis de masse), du chômage des femmes et du départ des jeunes. Si les difficultés quotidiennes ne sont pas éludées, ce sont les savoir-faire , les compétences et la créativité de ces hommes et de ces femmes qui prennent une place centrale dans tous les entretiens. Les activités professionnelles interrogées rendent compte des liens entre les villages mais aussi vers les régions voisines, Marseille, Nice, Gap, pour vendre, acheter, travailler et se former … Enfin, un éclairage très actuel des professions, éleveurs ou encore lavandiculteurs, expose l’intégration des connaissances fines des expériences du passé dans une exploitation en 2012, avec ses parti pris, la précision de ses savoir-faire, ses choix économiques. Une série de trois espaces est réservée sur ces carnets à l’écoute d’extraits d’entretiens  sélectionnés : - l’exploitation de la lavande, la distillerie de Barrême - la minoterie de la Mure Argens, la vie au moulin, les liens avec le monde de la boulangerie - la vie quotidienne et le travail dans les campagnes à la Foux-d’Allos, Barrême, Saint-André-les-Alpes La thématique des savoir-faire, leur apparition et leur transmission, est transversale à tous les sujets. Cette sélection d’extraits n’est pas exhaustive, elle ne rendra compte que d’une partie de la mémoire collectée, de quelques fenêtres ouvertes sur un ensemble plus vaste que vous pourrez découvrir en écoutant l’intégralité de la collection. L’intégralité des notices descriptives de la collection est disponible sur le site de la phonothèque de la MMSH. L’association Paroles Vives a été chargée du traitement documentaire de ces enquêtes suivant la méthodologie prescrite par la phonothèque de la MMSH. La restitution sur les carnets est une façon de remercier l’ensemble des personnes rencontrées  d’avoir accepté de nous  rencontrer. Celles qui nous ont aidé dans la construction du terrain et les témoins et leur famille, pour leur accueil et leur participation, pour la qualité de leur témoignage et leur volonté de transmettre ces savoir-faire et ces savoir-être comme un héritage commun. Cette écoute leur permettra aussi de s’entendre et d’écouter la voix de tous les autres. Chacun et chacune est dépositaire d’éléments uniques de cet héritage et, de fait, un témoin légitime. Dans un contexte idéal, cette mémoire devrait avoir un espace où être déposée, entendue et conservée pour être transmise. Le projet de mise en tourisme du patrimoine culturel du pays A3V réalise en partie cette mission. La société toute ensemble des vallées peut elle aussi prendre soin de cette mémoire en légitimant cette prise de parole, en la stimulant et en aménageant des espaces de recueil, inspirée d’un dicton auquel on prête plusieurs origines, dont une sénégalaise : Si tu ne sais pas où tu vas, au moins sache d’où tu viens . Crédits photographiques Colmars-les-Alpes vue générale, Mossot, Wikipedia, Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike. Le A et les trois V du pays A3V correspondent aux pays d’Asses, Verdon, Vaïre, Var est une association qui regroupe 40 communes des cantons de Castellane, Saint- André-les-Alpes, Barrême, Colmars, Annot et Entrevaux. 
4122	Yes	On Sunday, 3 February 2013 there will be a scheduled service downtime for the OCLC WorldShare Platform and all associated OCLC Web services available through the Platform from 2:00 am to 8:00 am ET (-5 GMT). During the downtime, the WorldShare Platform will receive this quarter’s planned enhancements. Downtime will be minimized as much as possible. Any questions, please let us know .   
4123	Yes	I've just added the Antiquity Now Blog to the Maia Atlantis feed aggregator. 
4124	Yes	I've just added the Antiquity Now Blog to the Maia Atlantis feed aggregator. 
4125	Yes	 [Here's another post with an open-research question bent. Feel free to share your thoughts.] Selection bias is a dangerous thing. Neck deep as I am in neo-charismatic literature about the growing overlap between “new evangelicals” (i.e., those coming out of the NAE in the 1940s) and the “third wave” of the charismatic spirit (e.g., Peter Wagner), it can easily feel as if all conservative evangelicals are charismatics now. Just to be clear that I’m not headed entirely off the deep end: the answer to this post’s title question is clearly, No, not all evangelicals are charismatics.  And yet the complex union of conservative religious groups of all stripes under big tent Republicanism have provoked some  very  complicated theological intersections. One need not go far for double-takes at the curious umbrella that attempts to cover Mormons like Mitt Romney as well as Catholics like Bobby Jindahl or Paul Ryan and seemingly non-charismatic evangelicals charismatics like Rick Perry or Michele Bachmann and then also welcomes unabashedly charismatic figures like Sarah Palin. (I’m being generous here, too. Bachmann and Perry are likely using some range of spiritual gifts in their worship.) I commented in a previous post about the way that Donald Miller has attempted to frame the emergent features of this post-baby boomer religious marketplace. Apart from my earlier criticisms, one of the major hurdles of a metanarrative of “new paradigm” churches is that it desaturates the dynamic range of Christian activities that we see in America today. There’s much more going on in the, forgive me, Culture Wars than can be captured if we look solely to evangelicals as the counterparts to mainline denominations (or to metaphysicals). This doesn’t even begin to address the challenges of fracturing evangelicalism into liberal and conservative branches (as recent posts over at The Immanent Frame have addressed ). My research on power evangelism suggests that the more fundamental concern of churches is not their political affiliation but rather their embrace or rejection of spiritual gifts. If we were to see fundamentalists as non-evangelicals (tricky business I think), then the split among conservative evangelicals today started in the 1940s between evangelicals ready to engage with the world and those more willing to retreat from the world as fundamentalists had done. (This is tricky as well.) Among those two groups of evangelicals the next major question was whether they came to embrace the charismatic renewal of the late 1950s and 1960s or, further, what appears to be another set of charismatic renewals in the 1980s. It’s a tangled web, right? Even if you pick some feature like spiritual gifts then there are still some serious theological gaps you might have to bridge. Are these gifts the sign of Christ’s immanent return? Are they the tools Christians will use to usher in the 1,000 year kingdom? Millennialism–whichever side of the 1,000 years you place Jesus’s return–continues to play a central role in the activities of Christians today. My dad likes to tell a story about his time at the University of Arizona during the presidential candidacy of George McGovern. Living among a group of well-educated graduate students in the sciences, his peers were convinced that George McGovern was headed for a landslide victory. In those remarkable days between 24 hour news and Twitter, it was still possible to be ignorant of cultural trends in a non-willful way. (Sorry, dad.) When Nixon won his 520-17 victory over McGovern (just Massachusetts and the District of Columbia voted for McGovern), Arizona’s McGovern supporters were stunned. I wonder when I look at the evangelical landscape today to what degree there are biases in our views about what evangelicalism looks like in American today. Could it be that evangelicalism–that of Billy Graham, Dwight Moody, Charles Fuller, and so on–is less alive today than we think it is in Joel Osteen, Rick Warren, Charles Colson, James Dobson, and so on.  When you’re in the forest all you can see is the trees around you. What do you do in your research to get a better of the forest you’re in? How do you avoid thinking all there is is forest? What do you do when you hit the tree-line? Related articles Power Evangelicals: Growing Trend or Passing Fancy? (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) It’s SLSW or Bust (mcconeghy.wordpress.com) ‘New Evangelical’-Progressive Alliance? Not So Fast (religiondispatches.org) Filed under: academic reflection , American Religous History , Dissertation Research , Evangelical , FFA Friday 
4126	Yes	 Sillof’s Samurai Wars Action Figures So, J. J. Abrams will be directing Ep7 of the Star Wars franchise? Okay, I’m definitely straying from library science, but hey, I grew up in the 70s…in California no less, where a lot of people looked like Luke Skywalker and, let’s be honest, Chewbacca. How can I, despite the miserable insult that was Ep1-3, not respond to this news? Truth be told, when I was 7 years old, I used to get into schoolyard tussles because I thought Close Encounters was cooler than Star Wars. But, despite this early critique of the space opera from far, far away, my devotion to Star Wars will likely go on, like a Jedi’s soul, shimmering in the long night well after this mortal coil is shed. So, really, at the moment, I’m fascinated by what thoughts and doubts must surely be running through J.J.’s mind right now. Lucas was obviously taken by what Mr. Abrams did with his reboot of Star Trek, so I’m sure that he’s been encouraged to do the same with the new movie. But, should he not go further? I think about this way too much. But if I was in his shoes, I would be soooo tempted to re-imagine the entire look and feel. After all, CGI has taken us light years from aliens that are really nothing more then men in latex suits. I really liked the alien beasts that made an all-too brief appearance in Abrams’ Star Trek movie. So I’m hopeful, he’ll overcome the limits once imposed on Industrial Light and Magic and shoot for some really “out-of-this-world” planet-scapes and bestiaries. And while he’s at it, can we also take the sets and costumes to another level? I’m not advocating steampunk or samurai rebooting like Silof’s rebooting of star wars figures. But let’s think outside the box a little here. It’s the 21st Century now. Have you seen what today’s soldiers look like (think Zero Dark Thirty)? Shouldn’t we be conceiving of sci-fi as something more than what the US military can put together for a special ops drop in Pakistan? And, of course, J.J. will undoubtedly be tempted to actually direct talented actors and get good performances out of them…and he’ll likely include a little human drama and conflict in there. Just make it Galactic Coffee, J. J.: Dark and bitter. The old fans like me will be oh-so happy you did. May the Force be with you, J. J.! 
4127	Yes	 Image available at: http://www.mainememory.net/artifact/29020/enlarge And just like that, January is over…only three and a half more months of winter to look forward to up here in central Maine!  I would prefer some snow to the frigid cold of last week and unseasonable warmth of this week. I declared January Digital History month here at Stillwater Historians in part because I am in the early stages of designing and planning an undergraduate and graduate course which will incorporate digital history and digital tools (more about those later in the semester).  To wrap up what turned out to be a fabulous month of thought and planning I wanted to provide a set of links that will prove useful as you think about your relationship to and place within the digital humanities. Image available at: http://www.mainememory.net/artifact/29017/enlarge Add Some #digitalhistory to your class Aha! Moments at AHA #THATCamp Now Trending in Scholarly History Journals: #eternalreview, #cycletosubjugation 5 Ways Blackboard can Help You (a nd Your Students) Stay Organized and Engaged Am I a Digital Historian? History Carnival 111: Environmental History Edition Digital History Hoarder Digital Ecology: Landscapes of Learning Microblogs and Metahistory QR Codes Digital Humanities Related Texts/Articles I read this Month (and may incorporate into future classes): Franco Moretti,  Graphs, Maps, Trees  Verso, 2007 (ISBN: 978-1844671854) Daniel J. Cohen and Roy Rosenzweig Digital History: A Guide to Gathering, Preserving, and Presenting the Past on the Web University of Pennsylvania Press, 2005 (ISBN: 0812219236) Kirschenbaum, Matthew G. “ What is Digital Humanities and What is it doing in English Departments? ”  ADE Bulletin  150 (2010) Michel, Jean-Baptiste, et al. “ Quantitative Analysis of Culture Using Millions of Digitized Books .”   Science  14 (January 2011): 176-182. Sample, Mark. “ The Digital Humanities is Not About Building, It’s About Sharing ”  SampleReality.com , May 25, 2011 Additional: Available at: http://www.mainememory.net/artifact/53023/enlarge Thoughts on Public amp; Digital History: Measuring the Diversity of Immigration using the Old Bailey Online 1674-1834 Debates In the Digital Humanities DH Grad Course Reflections Online Teaching: For Naught or Skill to be Sought? Digital Humanities, Academic Camps and Boundary Commissions 
4128	Yes	 Image available at: http://www.mainememory.net/artifact/29020/enlarge And just like that, January is over…only three and a half more months of winter to look forward to up here in central Maine!  I would prefer some snow to the frigid cold of last week and unseasonable warmth of this week. I declared January Digital History month here at Stillwater Historians in part because I am in the early stages of designing and planning an undergraduate and graduate course which will incorporate digital history and digital tools (more about those later in the semester).  To wrap up what turned out to be a fabulous month of thought and planning I wanted to provide a set of links that will prove useful as you think about your relationship to and place within the digital humanities. Image available at: http://www.mainememory.net/artifact/29017/enlarge Add Some #digitalhistory to your class Aha! Moments at AHA #THATCamp Now Trending in Scholarly History Journals: #eternalreview, #cycletosubjugation 5 Ways Blackboard can Help You (a nd Your Students) Stay Organized and Engaged Am I a Digital Historian? History Carnival 111: Environmental History Edition Digital History Hoarder Digital Ecology: Landscapes of Learning Microblogs and Metahistory QR Codes Digital Humanities Related Texts/Articles I read this Month (and may incorporate into future classes): Franco Moretti,  Graphs, Maps, Trees  Verso, 2007 (ISBN: 978-1844671854) Daniel J. Cohen and Roy Rosenzweig Digital History: A Guide to Gathering, Preserving, and Presenting the Past on the Web University of Pennsylvania Press, 2005 (ISBN: 0812219236) Kirschenbaum, Matthew G. “ What is Digital Humanities and What is it doing in English Departments? ”  ADE Bulletin  150 (2010) Michel, Jean-Baptiste, et al. “ Quantitative Analysis of Culture Using Millions of Digitized Books .”   Science  14 (January 2011): 176-182. Sample, Mark. “ The Digital Humanities is Not About Building, It’s About Sharing ”  SampleReality.com , May 25, 2011 Additional: Available at: http://www.mainememory.net/artifact/53023/enlarge Thoughts on Public amp; Digital History: Measuring the Diversity of Immigration using the Old Bailey Online 1674-1834 Debates In the Digital Humanities DH Grad Course Reflections Online Teaching: For Naught or Skill to be Sought? Digital Humanities, Academic Camps and Boundary Commissions 
4129	Yes	It seems the Department of Justice (the Loon is resisting Orwellian Newspeak clichés with all her might) may weigh in on the Georgia State e-reserves appeal, on the side of the publishers. The Loon can’t imagine the DOJ would bother without some serious greasing of palms. This suggests that the scholarly-publishing lobby has given up thinking they’ll get much out of Congress, and has turned to the executive branch instead. Score one for the white hats? Once again, the Loon has gotten herself stuck on why publishers want to win this case . Why? It’s utterly Pyrrhic . Unlike the coursepack cases of the late twentieth century, which resulted in little more than some minor red tape for the average faculty member, a publisher win in the Georgia State case bids fair to shut down legal e-reserves entirely. Neither libraries nor their parent institutions can afford the CCC ’s Danegeld, especially once the CCC thinks it has the whip-hand. (Even if they could, it’d come out of library-acquisitions dollars, a factor the publishers seem never to consider: they’d not make any more money, they’d make less , considering the CCC ’s cut and the fatal damage to Big Deals. Additional coursepack royalties came out of student pockets after Kinko’s lost its case; that seems a highly unlikely outcome of a publisher win in the Georgia State case.) Do scholarly publishers think they’d survive the backlash if they destroy e-reserves? Why, exactly, do they think that? The Loon can’t fathom. She can only suppose that publishers have a blinkered notion of the lifecycle of scholarship. The only puzzle-pieces they consider are the ones they own and the ones that involve money flowing toward them. Once the payment transaction is finished, the usage stats delivered, their knowledge stops. They simply don’t know that e-reserves are a pervasive component of the higher-education classroom. They may not even be paying attention to the current furor over textbook costs, which if they had any sense would signal serious trouble for them in case of the death of e-reserves. They’re certainly not the only actors in the knowledge cycle wearing blinkers, of course. Most faculty and librarians shouldn’t swan about parading their universal knowledge of the circulation of knowledge, goodness knows; when they try it, they tend to show their undergarments. (The Loon is in an odd spot, having worked in scholarly publishing, served as a librarian, and occupied a faculty-manqué spot in a university for the last little while. Odd, but perhaps conducive to broader understanding than most.) Librarian blinkers, however, appear to lead to the heat death of libraries rather than their sudden implosion. Publishing blinkers, if the past is any indication, tend more to the bullet-riddled foot. The Loon awaits events with a certain cynically bloody-minded interest, having awarded herself a retroactive half-point for predicting that Pallante’s copyright office would betray its Evil Stupid alignment in 2012. Only a month late; that’s not bad! 
4130	Yes	Il n’ y aura pas de Lex Google . Telle est la principale conclusion à tirer de l’accord à l’amiable signé entré le moteur de recherche et l’Etat français, qui permet à chacune des parties de s’en tirer à bon compte. Pour la modeste somme de 60 millions d’euros (alors que les aides à la presse dépassent largement le milliard d’euros), Google achète la paix avec les éditeurs et le gouvernement du pays des fromages, et évite le danger d’expérimentations fiscales susceptibles de faire boule de neige. Le gouvernement, dont les munitions légales étaient de petit calibre, peut bomber le torse et se targuer d’avoir fait plier le géant de Moutain View, tout en affichant son soutien aux industries de l’info. La montagne accouchant d’une souris semble bien la signature de la méthode Hollande. Dommage que ce bakchich jette aux oubliettes le rapport Colin et Collin , qui explorait la piste de la monétisation de la collecte des données – une voie largement impraticable, dont le gouvernement est probablement soulagé de ne pas avoir à tester la robustesse, mais qui contenait un aveu de poids. Dans leur diagnostic frappé au coin du bon sens de la réalité des pratiques fiscales des grandes entreprises, les inspecteurs des finances suggéraient en effet qu’un léger hiatus intellectuel avait présidé aux destinées de la mondialisation. Ayant tout fait pour fluidifier les échanges à l’échelle planétaire, ses acteurs ont simplement oublié un détail: la territorialisation de la fiscalité. C’est avec beaucoup d’ingénuité que nos experts décrivent ce léger défaut, qui explique pourquoi les pauvres sont les seuls à payer l’impôt, quand les riches et les grandes entreprises bénéficient des outils parfaitement légaux de l’optimisation fiscale, autre nom d’une évasion organisée par l’aveuglement complice des administrations. Faute d’une harmonisation fiscale équivalente a celle qui prévaut en matière économique, conviennent en substance Colin et Collin, il n’y a pas d’autre moyen pour l’Etat de tirer ressource des profits réalisés que le bricolage. Puisque le seul paramètre territorialisable d’une entreprise en ligne sont ses usagers, taxons donc le travail des internautes, fut-il gratuit. L’accord passé avec Google permet de jeter un voile pudique sur cet expédient hasardeux. Mais il ne fera pas oublier que dans les conditions actuelles de la mondialisation et le refus de toute entrave à la libre concurrence, l’Etat vient d’avouer qu’il est désormais incapable d’exercer ses prérogatives les plus élémentaires. 
4131	Yes	Just over a week ago, I arrived in Shanghai. In all due fairness, I have to give credit to United Airlines, because it was absolutely the most pleasant flight than any 14 hour flight could ever hope to be. Having had surprising experiences in the past with shellfish being served on flights in Asia, I have learned to order vegetarian meals when flying in Asia (I’m severely allergic to shellfish). The food was delightful, and they were very attentive with bringing water and snacks. All for a remarkably low ticket price–I’ve flown to Seattle from Boston for more! Settling In… We are settled in to the “Foreign Expert’s Building” in the Hongkou District. We are right near the major football stadium, and a few blocks away from the main campus of Shanghai International Studies University. The liaison assigned by the university to help us with the kinds of settling in tasks that require speaking Chinese was concerned for us that we wouldn’t like this street–it’s quite bustling! But as it is, I find it enchanting. Last time I was in Shanghai, I was living in a fairly well-to-do neighborhood, heavily settled by westerners. This was perhaps a great initiation, but I’m very much preferring this I suppose it shouldn’t have been a surprise that Coca-Cola is everywhere. neighborhood that seems much more local. Few people speak English, which is a bit troublesome now, but I think will help me a lot when I’ve started studying Chinese. The Spring Festival is coming up, which gives everywhere I’ve gone a lovely festive air. Though not all is festive, so I present to you my most artistic photo to date. Expatriate Boards There are plenty of English-language message boards with suggestions about life in Shanghai. One thing I didn’t expect was the amazing racism I find on these boards. It’s not universal, but over and over people write with at best dismissiveness and at worst open derision of China and all the Chinese. The kinds of sweeping statements I have been fortunate enough to encounter only very rarely are just rampant. Yet, expat boards seem to be the best way to get English language information about some of the things I need to know about. It’s unfortunate that I cannot begin Mandarin lessons until after the Spring Festival holiday–these attitudes make me all the more anxious to be able to function in Chinese. Planning The semester doesn’t start for some weeks yet, so I won’t have too much to report on the academic side until then. Now that my internet connection is up and running, I will be reaching out to Chinese academics interested in technology and its intersection with the Humanities. If there are people that any of you would care to suggest, do feel free to email me! Marta at this very domain name. As soon as I can wrangle up a proper organizing committee, I look forward to beginning work on THATCampChina. The best of my ability to research suggests that it will be the first gathering of its kind in the PRC. Teaching I have learned that my Wednesdays are going to be even longer than previously thought. I’m teaching classes not on the Hongkou Campus, but on the Songjiang Campus. I’ll be on a shuttle bus at 8:15AM on Wednesdays and on a shuttle bus back at 8:40PM! For some reason, this is turning out to have a salutary effect on my planning process. Such a long day as that (though I don’t deny that I’m grateful that all my classes meet once a week and that on the same day) is inspiring me to have my lessons more thoroughly planned, further than advance, than I usually do. It seems a great thing, in fact. 
4132	Yes	 Laura June on The Verge : The movement was physical: an essentially pre-internet band, Bikini Kill’s shows were small and visceral, their mailers were hand-lettered and often came with unasked for goodies — little handwritten notes from the KRS staffers (there were only a few of them) and stickers — reminders that you were ordering from human beings. To mark the 20th anniversary of the release of their first record, the band has re-issued the  Bikini Kill EP , on its own,  brand new label , the first of a series of reissues of its back catalogue. The records — available digitally and on vinyl — are just one piece of evidence that riot grrrl has left a lasting and still relevant mark on American culture. NYU’s Bobst Library recently acquired, from Kathleen Hanna and others, documents, photographs, notebooks, and zines for its  Fales Riot Grrrl Collection . … Bikini Kill is, according to Kathi, doing things in much the same way as they did back in the ‘90s: Tobi Vail (also the drummer of the band) is handling mail order of the records and t-shirts, and each package includes a note. But the world that those packages are sent into is very different than it was in 1992. Most people don’t actually buy records or CDs, or even MP3s: a growing number of people simply stream music through services like Rdio or Spotify. Also highly recommend the photo collection on the Bikini Kill Archive’s blog . 
4133	Yes	 New software studies publication which analyzes the key artistic tool of out times - Photoshop: Identifying affordances in Adobe Photoshop: An investigation into the theory of affordances and its use insoftware analyses MA Thesis by Herman van den Muijsenberg New Media amp; Digital Culture, Utrecht University Advisor: Dr. Ann-Sophie Lehmann 76 pages. software studies initiative 
4134	Yes	 New software studies publication which analyzes the key artistic tool of out times - Photoshop: Identifying affordances in Adobe Photoshop: An investigation into the theory of affordances and its use insoftware analyses MA Thesis by Herman van den Muijsenberg New Media amp; Digital Culture, Utrecht University Advisor: Dr. Ann-Sophie Lehmann 76 pages. software studies initiative 
4135	Yes	 For the second night in a row now I have revisited an old dream. It was/is an interesting experience. In the first dream I was in a dune house, or a collection of structures that made up a single dwelling, preparing it for a party by making sure all the outdoor lights sufficiently illuminated the [...]
4136	Yes	 My friend and colleague Gwydion provides a nice overview of big data for humanists. It won’t be useful for people already doing the work, but it is useful for how he pitches it to those who have not thought, or don’t want to think, about it.
4137	Yes	 blackfoxx : ourladyoftheunderpass : buzzfeed : I didn’t know how incomplete my life was until I saw this… all i want for xmas OM MUTHAFUCKIN ’ G!!  Where is this in my life?!! Continue reading → 
4138	Yes	For two days, I sat glumly in a higher-powered meeting of program directors for a famous philanthropic organization frustrated that I was unable to log in to my laptop to be able to do the exercises others were doing around me.  It was a very simple log in:  “Username:  Guest    Password:  Guest@0000.”  I tried probably twenty times.  It’s frustrating having a broken computer.  Such terrible programming! Except, when I confided the problem to a colleague and she offered to try for me, she was able to log in on the first try. The programming problem was in my brain.  Not the first time.  Not the last. I begin with this anecdote about my personal learning disability because it is extremely difficult for the “able brained” or “normal brained” to be able to fathom what it really feels like to be “differently brained.”  Even friends who think they know, do not.   It falls upon the “differently brained” to have to translate a reality that the “normal” typically cannot comprehend. Take a recent Facebook conversation.   A wonderful teacher writes in frustration about one of her students, “For the record. This will surprise no one, but I feel that documenting this will help me not go insane. Syllabus: Read Books 1-6 of The Iliad. Student email: Are we supposed to read the first 6 books of The Iliad?”    Predictably, the long string of comments, many of them from our mutual friends, great human beings and sympathetic and caring teachers, commiserate in empathic and often extremely witty ways with the frustrated teacher having to deal with this obtuse, lazy, stupid student. I wanted to hug the student.   I wanted to congratulate that student for having the courage to write to a prof to clarify an assignment that seemed confusing.  As confusing as, say:  “Username:  Guest    Password:  Guest@0000.” I wrote the equivalent of the above in the Facebook Comments.  It wasn’t a great thing to do since it disrupted some mirthful empathy exchanged among beleaguered teachers who had had to answer one too many emails from seemingly lazy students.  To her great credit, this teacher understood what I was trying to say.   She understood that, if she had been harsh and judgmental to that student (she hadn’t been, btw), she could have, well, put a roadblock in the educational career of someone who would turn out to be a successful teacher, author, educator one day.     I am filled with admiration for this teacher who turned her own views around.  It is as difficult for the able-brained to understand the differently brained as it is for me to read the instructions and manage to type in “Username:  Guest    Password:  Guest@0000.” I am lucky.   When I was in preschool, Chicago gave all three and four year olds an innovative new math test that claimed to sort out potential “math geniuses” and nurture them.   Apparently I did well, because I spent my childhood whisked into an array of special programs, competitions, new kinds of challenges and tests, and math camps, always designated for the “smart kids,” and always a surprise since I was barely a C student in school, including in math.    All my teachers knew I was this “math genius” (I despise the term but it’s the one I heard growing up); they also saw that I could make sense of large amounts of complicated, even contradictory information quickly (the skill I have relied on most in my adult life).  Because I could do such “higher order” thinking, they assumed the areas where I didn’t perform were evidence of “obstinance,” a word I heard even more frequently than “math genius.” There were so many things I could not do in school.  They all branded me “obstinate.”  If Facebook had been invented back then, one of my frustrated teachers would have posted about me in order to delay her mounting insanity over this obstinate student of hers who refused to read out loud or to recite anything from memory, who claimed she couldn’t sing the words to songs or comprehend the meaning of a sentence that had both words and numbers in it.   A “math genius,” who can solve a sequence of equations, numbers, symbols  . . . but only if there are no  words in the sentence?  Come on!  It can only mean one thing:  Obstinate!   (Note to adult self:  please don’t try to write your own checks, Cat!) If I hadn’t taken some experimental test designed by some psychologists at the University of Chicago convinced they could separate out future mathematicians from the common herd of kids who could do calculation but would never be able to handle abstract numerical complexity,  I probably wouldn’t have graduated from high school. **** There are lots of steps in between that little preschooler and my present career.   I’m not going to enumerate all of those here, but, because I’m differently brained, I hate to end without throwing out a lifeline to someone else out there who might have similar learning issues and who might be struggling with some basics.  So I’ll let you in on my best tricks for succeeding in a world that is mono-brained and that requires extra navigational skills from those of us differently-brained. Also, I find that my “normal brained” friends find the example of my personal success-tactics useful in understanding how differently someone else can think.  Keep this in mind: Most teachers are not differently brained.  Most teachers are those who, not surprisingly, have made it through the educational system smoothly enough to replicate it, even when they think of themselves as radical reformers of that system.   Especially English teachers.  English teachers are the gatekeepers to the normal brained .  (I see this all the time when I am hanging out with my computer and technology pals.  I no longer remember much math but, when I’m with them, my blood pressure goes down, and so does theirs when I assure them that, although an English teacher, I’m dyslexic.  Whew.  I can feel the relief.  Whew.) So what’s my best trick?  How have I pulled off this pretty stellar career as an educator despite having an unusual learning style? Team work. Finding the right partner to work with.  I have lots of other tricks but that is my best one by far, the most essential one.  In my field, that means I’ve always, from my very first job, volunteered to do complicated administrative, bureaucratic, or leadership tasks that no one else wants or can do.  As an assistant professor, I ran a program for nearly a decade without ever having my name on the masthead because the director was arrogant enough to want the glory but not ambitious enough to do the work. (I know, maybe he was “work disabled.”) In any case, he had a wonderful coworker (in HR terms an “assistant”) who did not possess the same learning issues I have.  Together, she and I made an amazing team. So that’s it:  The single most important key to my success has been, first, identifying, recognizing, and being willing to find workarounds for my different brain, understanding that the normal-brained have no idea what it feels like, on an everyday level, to be differently brained. This is a much harder step than you think because everything in our society mitigates against this self-awareness. It’s why I wanted to hug the student who asked my Facebook friend if s/he was correctly understanding the assignment. There is so much stigma, so much assumption, and so much  lack of awareness among the normal-brained.   Attention blindness again.  You literally can’t see what you can’t see–so the able brained can’t see beyond their own abilities to realize those are not universal.  Since I do see, it is my task to be able to make the bridge from the way my brain works to theirs.  They don’t get it, they won’t be able to make the bridge themselves, so I have to take charge of the situation. So, second, I have always teamed up with someone really smart and non-judgmental (the word “obstinate” is not acceptable).  These are rare individuals (you know who you are out there:  thank you, thank you! ),  who have deep human insight and respect without prejudice  . . .  and who are able to pull off flawlessly, seemingly effortlessly, even automatically, what, for me, is virtually impossible:  “Username:  Guest    Password:  Guest@0000.” I have been lucky to work with talented, insightful people throughout my career.   Together, we move mountains. ———————– ————– Now You See It: How Technology and Brain Science Will Transform Schools and Business for the 21st Century  (Viking Press) NOW AVAILABLE IN PAPERBACK! Purchase on:   Amazon  |  Barnes amp; Noble  | IndieBound                   
4139	Yes	 This blog post is cross-posted from the Open Economics Blog . Sign up to the Open Economics mailing list for regular updates. Throughout the Eurozone, credit rating agencies have been under attack for their lack of transparency and for their pro-cyclical sovereign rating actions. In the humble belief that the crowd can outperform the credit rating oracles, we are introducing an open database of historical sovereign risk data. It is available at http://www.publicsectorcredit.org/sovdef where community members can both view and edit the data. Once the quality of this data is sufficient, the data set can be used to create unbiased, transparent models of sovereign credit risk. The database contains central government revenue, expenditure, public debt and interest costs from the 19th century through 2011 – along with crisis indicators taken from Reinhart and Rogoff’s public database. Why This Database? Prior to the appearance of This Time is Different , discussions of sovereign credit more often revolved around political and trade-related factors. Reinhart and Rogoff have more appropriately focused the discussion on debt sustainability. As with individual and corporate debt, government debt becomes more risky as a government’s debt burden increases. While intuitively obvious, this truth too often gets lost among the multitude of criteria listed by rating agencies and within the politically charged fiscal policy debate. In addition to emphasizing the importance of debt sustainability, Reinhart and Rogoff showed the virtues of considering a longer history of sovereign debt crises. As they state in their preface: “Above all, our emphasis is on looking at long spans of history to catch sight of ’rare’ events that are all too often forgotten, although they turn out to be far more common and similar than people seem to think. Indeed, analysts, policy makers, and even academic economists have an unfortunate tendency to view recent experience through the narrow window opened by standard data sets, typically based on a narrow range of experience in terms of countries and time periods. A large fraction of the academic and policy literature on debt and default draws conclusions on data collected since 1980, in no small part because such data are the most readily accessible. This approach would be fine except for the fact that financial crises have much longer cycles, and a data set that covers twenty-five years simply cannot give one an adequate perspective…” Reinhart and Rogoff greatly advanced what had been an innumerate conversation about public debt, by compiling, analyzing and promulgating a database containing a long time series of sovereign data. Their metric for analyzing debt sustainability – the ratio of general government debt to GDP – has now become a central focus of analysis. We see this as a mixed blessing. While the general government debt to GDP ratio properly relates sovereign debt to the ability of the underlying economy to support it, the metric has three important limitations. First, the use of a general government indicator can be misleading. General government debt refers to the aggregate borrowing of the sovereign and the country’s state, provincial and local governments. If a highly indebted local government – like Jefferson County, Alabama, USA – can default without being bailed out by the central government, it is hard to see why that local issuer’s debt should be included in the numerator of a sovereign risk metric. A counter to this argument is that the United States is almost unique in that it doesn’t guarantee sub-sovereign debts. But, clearly neither the rating agencies nor the market believe that these guarantees are ironclad: otherwise all sub-sovereign debt would carry the sovereign rating and there would be no spread between sovereign and sub-sovereign bonds – other than perhaps a small differential to accommodate liquidity concerns and transaction costs. Second, governments vary in their ability to harvest tax revenue from their economic base. For example, the Greek and US governments are less capable of realizing revenue from a given amount of economic activity than a Scandinavian sovereign. Widespread tax evasion (as in Greece) or political barriers to tax increases (as in the US) can limit a government’s ability to raise revenue. Thus, government revenue may be a better metric than GDP for gauging a sovereign’s ability to service its debt. Finally, the stock of debt is not the best measure of its burden. Countries that face comparatively low interest rates can sustain higher levels of debt. For example, The United Kingdom avoided default despite a debt/GDP ratio of roughly 250% at the end of World War II. The amount of interest a sovereign must pay on its debt each year may thus be a better indicator of debt burden. Our new database attempts to address these concerns by layering central government revenue, expenditure and interest data on top of the statistics Reinhart and Rogoff previously published. A Public Resource Requiring Public Input Unlike many financial data sets, this compilation is being offered free of charge and without a registration requirement. It is offered in the hope that it, too, will advance our understanding of sovereign credit risk. The database contains a large number of data points and we have made efforts to quality control the information. That said, there are substantial gaps, inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the data we are publishing. Our goal in releasing the database is to encourage a mass collaboration process directed at enhancing the information. Just as Wikipedia articles asymptotically approach perfection through participation by the crowd, we hope that this database can be cleansed by its user community. There are tens of thousands of economists, historians, fiscal researchers and concerned citizens around the world that are capable of improving this data, and we hope that they will find us. To encourage participation, we have added Wiki-style capabilities to the user interface. Users who wish to make changes can log in with an OpenID and edit individual data points. They can also enter comments to explain their changes. User changes are stored in an audit trail, which moderators will periodically review – accepting only those that can be verified while rolling back others. This design leverages the trigger functionality of MySQL to build a database audit trail that moderators can view and edit. We have thus married the collaborative strengths of a Wiki to the structure of a relational database. Maintaining a consistent structure is crucial for a dataset like this because it must ultimately be analyzed by a statistical tool such as R. The unique approach to editing database fields Wiki-style was developed by my colleague, Vadim Ivlev. Vadim will contribute the underlying Python, JavaScript and MySQL code to a public GitHub repository in a few days. Implications for Sovereign Ratings Once the dataset reaches an acceptable quality level, it can be used to support logit or probit analysis of sovereign defaults. Our belief – based on case study evidence at the sovereign level and statistical modeling of US sub-sovereigns – is that the ratio of interest expense to revenue and annual revenue change are statistically significant predictors of default. We await confirmation or refutation of this thesis from the data set. If statistically significant indicators are found, it will be possible to build a predictive model of sovereign default that could be hosted by our partners at Wikirating . The result, we hope, will be a credible, transparent and collaborative alternative to the credit ratings status quo. Sources and Acknowledgements Aside from the data set provided by Reinhart and Rogoff, we also relied heavily upon the Center for Financial Stability’s Historical Financial Statistics . The goal of HFS is “to be a source of comprehensive, authoritative, easy-to-use macroeconomic data stretching back several centuries.” This ambitious effort includes data on exchange rates, prices, interest rates, national income accounts and population in addition to government finance statistics. Kurt Schuler, the project leader for HFS, generously offered numerous suggestions about data sources as well as connections to other researchers who gave us advice. Other key international data sources used in compiling the database were: International Monetary Fund’s Government Finance Statistics Eurostat UN Statistical Yearbook League of Nation’s Statistical Yearbook B. R. Mitchell’s International Historical Statistics, Various Editions, London: Palgrave Macmillan. Almanach de Gotha The Statesman’s Year Book Corporation of Foreign Bondholders Annual Reports Statistical Abstract for the Principal and Other Foreign Countries For several countries, we were able to obtain nation-specific time series from finance ministry or national statistical service websites. We would also like to thank Dr. John Gerring of Boston University and Co-Director of the CLIO World Tables project , for sharing data and providing further leads as well as Dr. Joshua Greene, author of Public Finance: An International Perspective , for alerting us to the IMF Library in Washington, DC. A number of researchers and developers played valuable roles in compiling the data and placing it on line. We would especially like to thank Charles Tian, T. Wayne Pugh, Amir Muhammed, Anshul Gupta and Vadim Ivlev, as well as Karthick Palaniappan and his colleagues at H-Garb Informatix in Chennai, India for their contributions. Finally, we would like to thank the National University of Singapore’s Risk Management Institute for the generous grant that made this work possible. 
4140	Yes	 This blog post is written by Esther Hoorn , Copyright Librarian, University of Groningen, the Netherlands. It is cross-posted from the Open Economics Blog . If Roald Dahl were still alive, he would certainly be tempted to write a book about the Dutch social psychologist Diederik Stapel. For not only did he make up the research data to support his conclusions, but also he ate all the Mamp;M’s, which he bought with public money for interviews with fictitious pupils in fictitious high schools. In the Netherlands the research fraud by Stapel was a catalyst to bring attention to the issue of research integrity and availability of research data. A new generation of researchers needs to be aware of the policy on sharing research data by the Dutch research funder NWO , the EU policy and the services of DANS, the Dutch Data archiving and networked services . In the near future, a data management plan will be required in every research proposal. Verifiability For some time now the library at the University of Groningen is organizing workshops for PhDs to raise awareness on the shift towards Open Access. Open Access and copyright are the main themes. The question also to address verifiability of research data came from SOM, the Research Institute of the Faculty of Economics and Business . The workshop is given as part of the course Research Design of the PhD program. The blogpost Research data management in economic journals proved to be very useful to get an overview of the related issues in this field. Open Access As we often see, Open Access was a new issue to most of the students. Because the library buys licenses the students don’t perceive a problem with access to research journals. Moreover, they are not aware of the big sums that the universities at present pay to finance access exclusively for their own staff and students. Once they understand the issue there is a strong interest. Some see a parallel with innovative distribution models for music. The PhDs come from all over the world. And more and more Open Access is addressed in every country of the world. One PhD from Indonesia mentioned that the Indonesian government requires his dissertation to be available through the national Open Access repository. Chinese students were surprised by availability of information on Open Access in China . Assignment The students prepared an assignment with some questions on Open Access and sharing research data. The first question still is on the impact factor of the journals in which they intend to publish. The questions brought the discussion to article level metrics and alternative ways to organize the peer review of Open Access journals. Will availability of research data stimulate open access? Example of the Open Access journal Economics The blogpost Research data management in economic journals presents the results of the German project EdaWax , European Data Watch Extended. An important result of the survey points at the role of association and university presses. Especially it appears that many journals followed the data availability policy of the American Economic Association . [quote] We found out that mainly university or association presses have high to very high percentages of journals owning data availability policies while the major scientific publishers stayed below 20%. Out of the 29 journals with data availability policies, 10 used initially the data availability policy implemented by the American Economic Review ( AER ). These journals either used exactly the same policy or a slightly modified version. For students it is assuring to see how associations take up their role to address this issue. An example of an Open Access journal that adopted the AER policy is Economics . And yes, this journal does have an impact factor in the Social Science Citation Index and also the possibility to archive the datasets in the Dataverse Network . Re-use of research data for peer review One of the students suggested that the public availability of research data (instead or merely research findings ) may lead to innovative forms of review. This may facilitate a further shift towards Open Access. With access to underlying research data and methodologies used, scientists may be in a better position to evaluate the quality of the research conducted by peers. The typical quality label given by top and very good journals may then become less relevant, over time. It was also discussed that journals may not publish a certain numbers of papers in a volume released e.g. four times a year, but rather as qualifying papers are available for publication throughout the year. Another point raised was that a substantial change in the existing publication mechanics will likely require either top journals or top business schools to lead the way, whereas associations of leading scientists in a certain field may also play an important role in such conversion. 
4141	Yes	 You may have seen hints of it before, but the US government data portal, data.gov, has just announced officially that its next iteration – “data.gov 2.0″ – will incorporate CKAN , the open-source data management system whose development is led and co-ordinated by the Open Knowledge Foundation. The OKF itself is one of the organisations helping to implement the upgrade. Like all governments, the US collects vast amounts of data in the course of its work. Because of its commitment to Open Data tens of thousands of datasets are openly published through data.gov. The new-look data.gov will be a major enhancement, and will for the first time bring together geospatial data with other kinds of data in one place. CKAN is fast becoming an industry standard, and the US will become the latest to benefit from its powerful user interface for searching and browsing, rich metadata support, harvesting systems to help ingest data from existing government IT systems, and machine interface, helping developers to find and re-use the data. The partnership is also excellent news for CKAN, which is being improved with enhancements to its features for ingesting and handling geodata. As it happens, CKAN itself is also moving towards a version 2.0. In fact, after months of hard work, the beta-version of CKAN 2.0 will hopefully be released in a couple of weeks. To keep up to date with developments, follow the CKAN blog or follow @CKANproject on Twitter. 
4142	Yes	Hot on the heels of the recent  House of Lords inquiry , there is also a separate Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) Committee inquiry into the new Research Councils UK open access mandate focusing on economic aspects. There were only 70 or so written  evidence submissions  to the House of Lords inquiry and few were from active researchers. Other countries around the world are closely following developments with UK policy so it is globally important that the UK mandate remains strong. For this new BIS inquiry we think  you  might want to submit written evidence. You need not be a UK resident or national. In fact, since the UK contributes 6% of the world’s academic research output (and 14% of the highly cited output ) we’re all stakeholders in this . Open access benefits the world, academics and non-academics alike.    The Committee will consider a range of topics including: The Government’s acceptance of the recommendations of the Finch Group Report ‘Accessibility, sustainability, excellence: how to expand access to research publications’, including its preference for the ‘gold’ over the ‘green’ open access model; Rights of use and re-use in relation to open access research publications, including the implications of Creative Commons ‘CC-BY’ licences; The costs of article processing charges (APCs) and the implications for research funding and for the taxpayer; and The level of ‘gold’ open access uptake in the rest of the world versus the UK, and the ability of UK higher education institutions to remain competitive. They are not particularly looking for general endorsements of Open Access. That is thankfully a given, unchangeable policy direction. As I understand it they are looking for relevant evidence to the points above, only .   Written evidence should be sent to the Committee, as an MS Word document, by e-mail to  biscommem@parliament.uk .   The deadline for BIS submissions is 7 February 2013, further details  here .   The Open Knowledge Foundation is particularly concerned about the confusion in many recent blog posts in certain quarters over what Creative Commons licences actually do. Some have been attempting to portray the Creative Commons Attribution licence (CC BY)  as against ‘author rights’ or against ‘ academic freedom ‘. It would be good to make clear the benefits of CC BY, perhaps even specifically in terms of economics and economic benefits.   This is a rare opportunity for for our voices to be heard in a policy-guiding process. We should not waste this opportunity. Commercial academic publishers will almost certainly be submitting their viewpoints and interests, so we should equally ensure that our interests in intelligent openness are represented here too.    
4143	Yes	 By Joel Harrington   (Wamp;M Regular Contributor) Rare is the human society, past or present, in which drinking alcohol has not served a variety of purposes. Naturally we think of relaxation and celebration, and of course the lubricating role of drink in a multitude of personal relationships: friendship, romance, business, politics, and even at the very end of life (think wakes). In premodern Europe, drinking served all these functions and more. Beer and wine were ubiquitous, as were distilled spirits from the sixteenth century onward. Given the scarcity of potable water and other non-alcoholic drinks, personal consumption of a gallon a day of beer was not considered excessive. Even the smallest hamlet boasted at least a tavern or two. Not surprisingly, many if not most Europeans went through the day legally drunk by modern standards, providing some relief for the harsh conditions of their lives, but also spawning a growing problem with public drunkenness. Alcohol also played a pivotal role in law enforcement. Or rather, in the most severe form of law enforcement—public executions. First, there were the condemned prisoners themselves, traditionally known as “the poor sinners.” In most locations, like today, the poor sinners were granted one last feast before the final hour. Some individuals had little appetite for any food, while others gorged themselves on meat and drink until the very last minute. Virtually every condemned soul was offered the executioner’s “special drink,” a high-alcohol concoction typically laced with a sedative. This was in fact a delicate operation, since some fragile women might pass out, while some boisterous young men might become even more aggressive, endangering the executioner and his assistants. The overarching goal was to calm an agitated poor sinner, but still make it possible for him or her to walk to the execution grounds from the prison and face death awake. During the condemned prisoner’s procession to the gallows, alcohol played still another role—though hardly aiding the executioner in the performance of his duties. Spectators began assembling many hours before public executions, eager to secure good viewing spots. Street vendors selling bottles of beer and wine roamed the crowds, invariably populated to some degree by numerous drunken young men, jostling one another and singing ribald ditties. The poor sinner, public executioner, and other members of the formal death procession thus ran a gauntlet of shouting, spitting, and thrown objects on their way to the place of execution Once having reached their destination, the executioner than often had to wait through long farewell speeches or sung ballads, often growing visibly more anxious. Drunken and angry spectators, after all, were known to verbally abuse the executioner as if he were a referee at a professional sports event—with the notable difference than any botched performance on his part might trigger a public stoning or other deadly assault on him and his assistants. Not surprisingly, many professional executioners thus found solace in—what else—a drink. In fact, executioners were largely reputed to be heavy drinkers, even by premodern standards. While understandable, drinking too much before the execution sometimes caused mishaps, such as multiple strokes of the sword at a beheading. Crowds did not react well to botched executions, nor did government superiors, who fired without hesitation an executioner who ruined their public spectacles of justice. That is, if the crowd didn’t get to him first. It was thus a remarkable anomaly when an executioner had a reputation as a sober man, yet the man I have come to know through the writing of my recent book—Meister Frantz Schmidt of Nuremberg—not only didn’t get drunk, he didn’t drink at all. This decision, as I discovered, was a very clever bit of self-promotion and marketing, but also reflected an exceptionally determined individual with a lifelong agenda. 
4144	Yes	 Arkady Shaikhet’s “Lenin’s Lamp” (1925) By Eric Laursen (Wamp;M Contributor) In Arkady Shaikhet’s photograph “Lenin’s Lamp” (1925) two peasants examine a light bulb hanging from a cord that appears to be strung through the portrait of Mikhail Frunze, Bolshevik and son of a peasant.  Electricity seems to be directed from Frunze’s mind and into the hands of the unenlightened peasant, whose traditional haircut and clothing contrast sharply with Frunze’s and point to the intended modernizing influence of the electrification campaign.  In the early Soviet period, showing the light-bulb–nicknamed “Lenin’s lamp”–to the peasants became a demonstration of technology that Lenin claimed would “show the population, especially the peasants, that we have [. . .] broad plans which aren’t taken from fantasies, but supported by technology grounded in science.”  The image showed up on posters, lacquered boxes, and even in a children’s cartoon.  The light-bulb may seem a strange choice of evidence to prove that communism is not “fantasy,” but as seen in Shaikhet’s often-reproduced photograph, the light-bulb is endowed in Soviet propaganda with the significance of a religious artifact that merely needs to be touched or seen in order to work wonders.  The peasant is presented in Bolshevik propaganda about electrification as a scapegoat for everything regressive in post-revolutionary Russia; Lenin writes:  “[Electrification] will enable us to fully and decisively defeat that backwardness, that fragmentation, disintegration, the darkness of the countryside, that is to this point the main cause of all stagnation, all backwardness, all oppression.”  Lenin presents electricity as a high-tech adhesive that could mend the “fragmentation, disintegration” of the countryside and meld the dark fragments into one cohesive brightly-lit whole, lighting up the darkness both literal and figurative.  The primitive, flickering light of the peasant home and work-place would be replaced by Lenin’s lamps:  “Cheap light energy from mighty regional electrical stations spreads around the whole country, goes right up to village huts with their wood-splinter torches and other home-grown means of illumination, overthrowing the coarse backwardness of village life.” “Electrification and Counterrevolution” (1921) Repeatedly, Bolshevik propaganda argued that electricity would defeat capitalism, religion, hierarchy and exploitation.  In the 1923 poster “Electrification and Counter-revolution” an enormous hand holds up one of Lenin’s lamps, and a group of stereotypical counterrevolutionaries representing the evils of the class system try to extinguish its light.  To the left of the light bulb a fat capitalist crouches on his hands and knees so that a White general and an Orthodox priest can climb up on his back with a fire hose; to the right a fashionable gentleman fetches a bucket of water; and in the center a foreign diplomat attempts to blow out the light bulb with a small bellows.  The tiny figures each wear identifying markers of the exploiting class—clerical garb, gold epaullettes, a top hat, a gentleman’s straw boater, and a monocle.  They also wear technological ignorance and backwardness on their well-tailored sleeves.  Under the electric light of the proletariat they become comic buffoons, motivated by fear and greed and fighting the progress of technology with the ineffectual weapons of a more primitive age.  Embodied in the electrification campaign is the promise that with technological superiority comes moral purity.  The proletarian hand, like the right hand of God, gives humanity the light of truth, guiding followers to the bright future and illuminating the technologically ignorant exploiters of humankind, so that they can be seen as cartoon figures, easily defeated by the mighty–electrified–Soviet hand. Cover of “We Build” (1929) As we can see in the cover of the November 7, 1929 issue of We Build, a Soviet journal dedicated to construction photography, after his death in 1924, Lenin’s image became inextricably linked to the lamps that carried his name and that fought the darkness of ignorance.  Here Lenin’s head is enclosed in an enormous light bulb, a fusion of human and technology that gives new meaning to the term “Lenin’s lamp.“  Below the disembodied Lenin’s lamp, we see one of the massive hydroelectric dams envisioned by the electrification campaign and the constructions enabled by their power. A power tower is pictured in the upper right-hand corner.  Moving diagonally down the page and separating the picture of the construction site from the picture of the electric tower is a series of letters forming steps that spell out:  “XII October is a New Step toward Socialism,” in large font in Russian and in smaller letters in German and English–to show the triumph of Soviet construction over the leading industrialized countries of the world.  In this tribute to the twelfth anniversary of the October revolution and the first five-year plan, Lenin’s head becomes a source of light for everything contained in the picture; and, by implication, in the journal issue that follows.  The power goes both ways.  The lines connecting the base of the light-bulb to the tops of cranes and the roofs of factories also charge up the light-bulb and by implication the memory of Lenin, who “lived, lives, and will live” in memorials like this one that help the Soviet people move up the stairway to socialism.  According to the circular logic displayed in the image, each year after the revolution takes another “step toward socialism” through the human energy that accomplishes monumental construction feats, and it also produces energy for revolutionary enlightenment that will push the Soviet people up one more step.  The cult of Lenin and technology that is powered by the head in the light bulb is an energy loop of propaganda and construction, each of which feeds energy to the other. 
4145	Yes	I decided for the Spring semester to write my course site using Flask , a python micro web framework. By saying it is a micro framework, I’m saying it doesn’t do near as much for you as Ruby on Rails and the like. I haven’t written a web app from scratch before, so I figured it would be a good exercise to do so for a course site, especially since I want to do something much more complex for next Fall’s Seminar on Digital History in Theory and Practice. Flask is great, from my perspective, for a couple of reasons. 1. It’s in python. (I’m comfortable with python, so I don’t have to learn a bunch of new language conventions while also learning to build the web app.) 2. Even though as a microframework, Flask doesn’t handle a ton for you, there are already a bunch of extensions out there that help quite a bit. The past two years or so, I’ve been building my course sites with hyde , a python static site generator much like ruby’s jekyll . I think that most of what we do with course sites can be done statically, with just a little client-side javascript. And, in fact, there is nothing on this new site that I couldn’t do that way. So, why bother with Flask then? I don’t know. Shits and giggles? The chance to learn how to deploy a wsgi app on Dreamhost? Learning at a very basic level about routing views, app configs, etc. I still didn’t want to mess with a SQL database for the site, because other than tracking student posts there’s no point in it. Everything else my course sites need, at least for now, are better served as, essentially, static files. So, individual pages for the site are all written in Markdown, and served using a flask extension named flat-pages . It’s a nifty plugin. When the app receives a url request, the path is checked against a folder named pages . So, for example, http://history475.chadblack.net/syllabus/ checks for a file named syllabus . Since it’s there, it takes the text of that file, which is still in Markdown, converts it to an html snippet and serves it through a page template. This is, in many ways, what a static site generator does, and what Frozen Flask does to produce static sites from a Flask app. (I’m going to do that when this course is over. There’s no need for an in-active site to be anything but a static site.) This brings us back to a page of student post feeds. I require my students to each start a wordpress.com blog for my course. They write weekly, and I always have a place on the site that aggregates their feeds. There are many easy ways to do this. For my previous static sites, I’ve used a number of javascript options. For my personal site , I use feedjs for an up-to-date feed of this site. For course sites I’ve been using Google’s Feed API , which lets me embed a whole bunch of feeds into a singe frame. It’s also nice because Google caches feeds and lets you control a number of features. Sharon Leon is using a Google Reader bundle for The Digital Past , which is very nice given the ease of putting together and sharing bundles in Reader. I always actually track student posts for grading purposes that way. But all of that is too easy. For my Flask site, I first put the feed retrieval directly in site logic with a function that checked feeds each time someone visited the student work page. By the way, I’m using a python package named feedparser for getting the feeds. This works. But, it’s also very slow and requires a whole bunch of resources to do retrieve things that are rarely updated. A better solution would be to store student feeds in an SQL, or even NoSQL database. But, I only want to show the most recent post on the site, so all the caching and checking, and then the overhead of adding an ORM to the app seemed like more trouble that it’s worth. Solution? Why not write a script that gets the most recent post of a student site and have it directly write Markdown to a file in the pages directory? So, that’s what I did . I run the script with a cron job. Speaking of which, that’s another thing I learned doing this– how to write a crontab entry and deal with script path problems and the like. feedparser returns a dictionary-like object that is fairly complex, so it took a bit of time figuring out where the elements of the feed were that I wanted to display. Then, I had encoding problems. Because Python 2.x always ends up in an encoding problem. feedparser returns unicode objects, and Python’s normal file writer tries to encode everything as ASCII. The result is this page , which is essentially programmatically-written Markdown. All the code for the site is on github . Next semester I’m teaching a grad/undergrad seminar on Digital History. That site will also be a Flask app, but this time I’m going to have students write posts directly on the site through an admin interface. Yes, I’m going to reinvent the blog, because doing it the hard way is better for me. Filed under: Uncategorized Tagged: cron , flask , markdown , python 
4146	Yes	 When I ranted about how the media’s incessant desire to get the story was not allowing the people of Newtown to mourn, I did not expect that I’d be mourning the death of a friend a month later. As I’ve tried to come to terms with Aaron’s death, I’ve found myself slipping between personal grief and meta reflection, my primary coping mechanism for dealing. I’ve decided to craft this deeply personal, reflective blog post because I think that it makes sense to think about and discuss what mourning and vulnerability mean in a culture of public-ness. Last week, I read the story of a Newtown woman who was photographed grieving at a vigil. She voiced her struggle in becoming an icon of the tragedy, understanding the importance of the story but also wanting to be respected as an individual going through her own struggles. This story resonated with me. Aaron Swartz was a friend of mine. When I woke up three Saturdays ago to learn about his death, I went into complete shock. I spent the day talking with mutual friends, reading heartfelt stories on the internet, and crying. I woke up the next day and while lying in bed, penned my own memorial for my blog . I always struggle with what my blog is, wanting it to be a way of communicating with people who know me while also recognizing that it’s read by many strangers. Still, it’s the best vessel to share with a community of geeks that I love. So I posted my reflections there. I should’ve known that my blog post would attract the attention of the press. But I wasn’t really processing reality and I hadn’t yet begun to realize that the story would become a mainstream one. On one hand, I was glad. People should know who Aaron was and why what he did was important. On the other hand, I watched as the story took on a life of its own, not just a rallying cry for geeks, but a portrait that I could barely recognize. I started getting questions from journalists and I panicked. I wrote as politely as I could that I couldn’t do it, I couldn’t be their source. But I also struggled with the very fact of their asking. Yes, I blogged about him, but what right do I have to speak for Aaron? To tell Aaron’s story? I was Aaron’s friend, but like many friends in my world, we ebbed and flowed in terms of closeness over the last 9 years. I was not his lover, I was not his professional collaborator. I had only met his father once and only met his current partner briefly. I knew only a small subset of his social circle. I knew – and adored – a facet of Aaron. But who was I to tell his story? I found myself fretting over how my blog post had created a signal that I didn’t want to to convey. I wanted to express my grief and my fear over how parts of my community were reacting, not claim proximity or define Aaron. As the funeral rolled around, I scratched my head as to whether or not to go. I hate funerals, but I also knew that many people I cared deeply about were struggling even more than me. And none of us live in the same city. And part of me wanted to support them and show respect. But then I heard people who didn’t know Aaron talking about going because it was “the right thing to do” which was basically code for the notion that everyone who was everyone was going to be there. It also became clear that it was going to be a media event with the possibility of protestors and counter-protesters. And I balked. I couldn’t stomach the idea of simultaneously trying to mourn and trying to deal with a collective performance of mourning. So I stayed put, in a daze. And then the memorials started up and I was asked to speak. And I realized that I was so not there yet. I was still at the stage of cry and hug. And I was struck by how some of those who he spent his last days with were able to channel their own emotional struggle into a far more productive output than I could possibly muster. I was in awe of their strength, of their commitment. Because I relished the activist in Aaron and I was completely intellectually with them in their efforts to use this moment to make a difference, to speak out against the structural inequities and abuses of power that Aaron was fighting for. But I wasn’t able to be there; I was still in a dark place that wasn’t productive. So I pushed my own escape valve, a privileged valve I’ve learned to use whenever things got dark. I spent my frequent traveler points and went to Miami to hug the sun and the beach and get a grip on my mental state. I’ve spent a lot of years struggling with my own demons and one of the best parts of growing old for me is that I’ve developed coping mechanisms to identify and deal with my emotional state before I put myself or anyone else at risk. I’m good at getting control over me before running full-speed with my activist goals. This is something that I’m very proud of. But I also look back with a lot of uncertainty because I don’t know how I would’ve gotten here without the internet as it was when I was coming of age. As I’ve said many times, the internet has been my saving grace. I usually publicly point to the ways in which I have learned about new opportunities and been challenged to think about a world that was bigger than the one that I was inhabiting on a daily basis. But embedded in those positive-minded narratives is the fact that the internet allowed me to be vulnerable and safe in a productive way. I spent countless hours anonymously talking to strangers about my demons without being tracked or identified or outed. I used LiveJournal to be deeply vulnerable among friends in an environment where we all understood that it was a site where you shared your struggles and everyone respected that. I lashed out in ways that helped create friendships as a byproduct of getting help. And I started blogging in a context where putting yourself out there enabled a small community of caring folks to listen and be supportive in all sorts of unique ways. Today, I don’t have that luxury. My internet is painfully public. My interactions online are heavily constrained by pressures I get from others. When I post something controversial or incomplete, I am consistently publicly attacked and I’m regularly told that this is what I get for choosing to speak in public. I am told that as a public figure, I deserve whatever I get. So when I choose to make myself vulnerable in public, I have to brace myself for attacks. Even my attempt to mourn Aaron generated messages by strangers attacking me for clearly having not been a real friend or else he wouldn’t have died. I’ve learned to roll with these attacks, but they still sting. And I don’t know that my younger self could’ve handled them well. But what I know is that I no longer have an internet where I feel safe to deal with my demons. There are still places where people can carve out that space, but somehow, it never feels safe enough to me anymore. I realize that this nostalgia for the past is interwoven with a whole set of different issues that make this a self-absorbed lament. But Aaron’s death threw it in my face. Because, on the day that Aaron died, the geeks that I grew up being vulnerable with all let down their guards and wailed through the media that they knew best. And then his death went from creating a weekend of collective sadness and storytelling to an event that took on a life of its own. And I’m left with a discomforting question: where are geeks allowed to be vulnerable today? With each new geek death by suicide, folks ask what we should do about the depression in our community. I can’t help but think that we’re paying the costs of the public-ness that we’ve helped create. We’ve made geek culture something to watch, an economic engine, a dependency. And in doing so, we haven’t enabled safe spaces to grow. We’ve created communities connected around ideas and actions, relishing individualistic productivity for collective good. But we haven’t created openings for people to be weak and voice their struggles and demons. In short, we don’t know how to support vulnerabilities and rather than debugging the problem, we just hope that if we don’t pay too much attention to them, they’ll go away. But the pressures of public-ness are forcing us to pay an ugly price. In NYC alone, we’ve lost two geeks in two years because their worlds spun out of control in ways that didn’t leave them with enough strength to grapple with their demons while also trying to make the world a better place. Throughout this country, there are geeks and hackers facing serious pressures by structural power as a byproduct of the public-ness we’ve created. And many of them are also facing serious demons. I’m definitely among those who want to hold political entities accountable for capitalizing on vulnerabilities in their pursuit of the status quo, but I am also hoping that the geek community can figure out a way to make sure that those who are struggling have enough support to fight both their demons and their oppressors. Before we lose another one. The problem is that I genuinely don’t know how. 
4147	Yes	"La Resocialista Internacional" by Andreas María Jacobs : As you explore and read this disorienting work, consider how the use of links, mouseovers, animated GIFs, and multiple languages challenge expectations. Take pleasure in its headlines, juxtapositions, and the brief scheduled displays of even more visually charged images of language. Is the persistent background image of a cassette tape meant to be personified? Is this what happens when media stops being the passive recipient of our gaze and starts staring back? This poem is a textbook example of hypermediacy that follows an early Web aesthetic but constructed with more modern CSS, HTML, and JavaScript than was used in the 1990s (compare this work with “Weave” by Thomas Bell for an example of similar screen renderings using older Web technologies). In both cases, the texts are constructed to frustrate conventional design and readability principles, though Jacobs’ is working with more sophisticated code materials. Take a look at the source code (right click and select from menu) to note how all the elements are so readable, organized, and deliberately formatted and positioned on the screen. This is a different representation of the text from what we see on the screen: the instructions for display rather than the result of a browser following those instructions. Is reading this code somehow cheating by circumventing the author’s designed interface? Consider that the poem’s title translates literally to “The Resocialist International” and its placement and language choices frame the page as a socialist art journal. As you read its slogan-like lines (formatted as headlines) which advocate a revolutionary avant garde poetics, think about the extent you might be following deeply ingrained reading practices and how this work pushes you to become re-socialized. Is reading the screen rendering alone an implicit acceptance of an unspoken Web EULA ? 
4148	Yes	Chalk one up for the bad guys: Last weekend, the Librarian of Congress handed over much more power to your wireless carrier over your life, your technology and your choices. Say what? Yes, that’s right, the Librarian of Congress…that otherwise benign, somewhat ceremonial position over the Library of Congress…but also, in this case, the Decider over patent law as it relates to consumer rights concerning their mobile devices. That’s because the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (DMCA) grants the nation’s top librarian power to set rules for how the law will be applied. And last weekend, the LOC ruled against the public interest. In a major slap in the face for technological accessibility, consumer choice and innovation, Dr. James Billington, the current LOC, just made it illegal (yes! against the law!) to unlock a device that you purchase from a carrier in one of those common 2-year contracts. These are the same, highly-attractive deals that have allowed smartphones to not just flourish, but be within reach of people who otherwise have little access to the Internet. According to the  Pew Internet and American Life Project , 38% of black/hispanic Americans, 40% of households making under $35k and 42% of young people, ages 18-29, use a mobile device as their primary means of accessing the Internet. And if you’re not in one of those groups, you’re probably still impacted since most people opt for the lure of much cheaper smartphones when they sign a 1-2 year contract. To add insult to injury, a recent piece by Paul Solman on the PBS Newshour, spotlighted the nickel and diming shenanigans that plague every mobile subscriber in the United States…hidden fees that bulk up the carrier’s profits. All of this is to say that Dr. Billington just did another huge favor for ATamp;T, Verizon and their lot. And he did a big disservice to the rest of us. The market simply does better when there is abundant choice and openness. Helping the carriers silo off their consumers, limit our options and the applications and operating systems we can use, does nothing good for the public, the economy or the freedom of information, for that matter. You’d think that Dr. Billington would have been more differential to these considerations given his apparent interest in Russian history, particularly in Russian populism. Just check out the titles of some of his writings: “Mikhailovsky and Russian Populism” (1956) “Fire in the Minds of Men” (1980) Russia Transformed: Breakthrough to Hope, August 1991″ (1992) Speaking of fire in the minds of men! This guy needs to remember that freedom isn’t something that he just read about in a book. It’s something that shouldn’t be trampled on…something leaders in a democracy (and especially leaders of librarians) need to preserve and protect, especially when it’s given up to such narrow, short-sided interests like a select clutch of communication conglomerates. More on the story can be read on C|Net . and for a real eye-opener into how the Librarians of Congress have been sticking it to the little guy for the last several years via their DMCA rulings, see these stories from the Electronic Frontier Foundation . 
4149	Yes	Below is an excerpt from chapter two, “From the Philosophy of the Open to the Ideology of the User-Friendly,” from my book  Reading Writing Interfaces: From the Digital to the Bookbound (University of Minnesota Press 2014). It is also the basis of the talk I gave at MLA in January 2013 and the full version of the talk I gave at Counterpath Press February 2013. As always, I welcome your comments! * “Knowledge is power: information is the fabric of knowledge; the controller of information wields power.” –”Some Laws of Personal Computing,” Byte 1979 (Lewis 191) “If a system is to serve the creative spirit, it must be entirely comprehensible to a single individual…Any barrier that exists between the user and some part of the system will eventually be a barrier to creative expression. Any part of the system that cannot be changed or that is not sufficiently general is a likely source of impediment.” –”Design Principles Behind Smalltalk,” Byte 1981(Ingalls 286) My talk today is concerned with a decade in which we can track the shift from seeing a user-friendly computer as a tool that, through a graphical user interface (GUI), encourages understanding, tinkering, and creativity to seeing a user-friendly computer that uses a GUI to create an efficient work-station for productivity and task-management and the effect of this shift particularly on digital literary production. The turn from computer systems based on the command-line interface to those based on “direct manipulation” interfaces that are iconic or graphical was driven by rhetoric that insisted the GUI, particularly that pioneered by the Apple Macintosh design team, was not just different from the command-line interface but it was naturally better, easier, friendlier. The Macintosh was, as Jean-Louis Gassée (who headed up its development after Steve Jobs’s departure in 1985) writes without any hint of irony, “the third apple ,” after the first apple in the Old Testament and the second apple that was Isaac Newton’s, “the one that widens the paths of knowledge leading toward the future.” Despite studies released since 1985 that clearly demonstrate GUIs are not necessarily better than command-line interfaces in terms of how easy they are to learn and to use, Apple – particularly under Jobs’ leadership – successfully created such a convincing aura of inevitable superiority around the Macintosh GUI that to this day the same “user-friendly” philosophy, paired with the no longer noticed closed architecture, fuels consumers’ religious zeal for Apple products. I have been an avid consumer of Apple products since I owned my first Macintosh Powerbook in 1995; but what concerns me is that ‘user-friendly’ now takes the shape of keeping users steadfastly unaware and uninformed about how their computers, their reading/writing interfaces, work let alone how they shape and determine their access to knowledge and their ability to produce knowledge. As Wendy Chun points out, the user-friendly system is one in which users are, on the one hand, given the ability to “map, to zoom in and out, to manipulate, and to act” but the result is a “ seemingly sovereign individual” who is mostly a devoted consumer of ready-made software and ready-made information whose framing and underlying mechanisms we are not privy to. However, it’s not necessarily the GUI per se that is responsible for the creation of Chun’s “ seemingly sovereign individual” but rather a particular philosophy of computing and design underlying a model of the GUI that has become the standard for nearly all interface design. The earliest example of a GUI-like interface whose philosophy is fundamentally different from that of the Macintosh is Douglas Engelbart’s NLS or “oN-Line System” which he began work on in 1962 and famously demonstrated in 1968. While his “interactive, multi-console computer-display system” with keyboard, screen, mouse, and something he called a chord handset is commonly cited as the originator of the GUI, Engelbart wasn’t so much interested in creating a user-friendly machine as he was invested in “augmenting human intellect”. As he first put it in 1962, this augmentation meant “increasing the capability of a man to approach a complex problem situation, to gain comprehension to suit his particular needs, and to derive solutions to problems”. The NLS was not about providing users with ready-made software and tools from which they choose or consume but rather it was about bootstrapping , or “the creation of tools for expert computer users” and providing the means for users to create better tools, or tools better suited for their own individual needs. We can see this emphasis on tool-building and customization that comes out of an augmented intellect in Engelbart’s provision of “view-control” (which allows users to determine how much text they see on the screen as well as the form of that view) and “chains of views” (which allows the user to link related files) in his document editing program. Underlining the fact that the history of computing is resolutely structured by stops, starts, and ruptures rather than a series of linear firsts, in the year before Engelbart gave his “mother of all demos,” Seymour Papert and Wally Feurzeig began work on a learning-oriented programming language they called ‘Logo’ that was explicitly for children but implicitly for learners of all ages. Throughout the 1970s Papert and his team at MIT conducted research with children in nearby schools as they tried to create a version of Logo that was defined by “modularity, extensibility, interactivity, and flexibility”. At this time, the Apple II was the most popular home computer throughout the late 1970s until the mid-1980s and, given its open architecture, in 1977 Logo licensed a public version for Apple II computers as well as for the less popular Texas Instruments TI 99/4. In 1980, Papert published the decidedly influential Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas in which he makes claims about the power of computers that are startling for a contemporary readership steeped in an utterly different notion of what accessible or user-friendly computing might mean. Describing his vision of “computer-aided instruction” in which “the child programs the computer” rather than one in which the child adapts to the computer or even is taught by the computer, Papert asserts that they thereby “embark on an exploration about how they themselves think…Thinking about thinking turns the child into an epistemologist, an experience not even shared by most adults” (19). And two years later, in a February 1982 issue of Byte magazine, Logo is advertised as a general-purpose tool for thinking with a degree of intellectuality rare for any advertisement: “Logo has often been described as a language for children. It is so, but in the same sense that English is a language for children, a sense that does not preclude its being ALSO a language for poets, scientists, and philosophers”. Moreoever, for Papert thinking about thinking by way of programming happens largely when the user encounters bugs in the system and has to then identify where the bug is to then remove it: “One does not expect anything to work at the first try. One does not judge by standards like ‘right – you get a good grade’ and ‘wrong – you get a bad grade.’ Rather one asks the question: ‘How can I fix it?’ and to fix it one has first to understand what happened in its own terms.” (101) Learning through doing, tinkering, experimentation, trial-and-error is, then, how one comes to have a genuine computer literacy. In the year after Papert et al began work on Logo and the same year as Engelbart’s NLS demo, Alan Kay also commenced work on the never-realized Dynabook, produced as an “interim Dynabook” in 1972 in the form of the GUI-based Xerox Alto which could also run the Smalltalk language. Kay thereby introduced the notion of “personal dynamic media” for “children of all ages” which “could have the power to handle virtually all of its owner’s information-related needs”. Kay, then, along with Engelbart and Papert, understood very clearly the need for computing to move from the specialized environment of the research lab and into people’s homes by way of a philosophy of the user-friendly oriented toward the flexible production (rather than rigid consumption) of knowledge. It was a realization eventually shared by the broader computing community for, by 1976, Byte magazine was publishing editorials such as “Homebrewery vs the Software Priesthood” declaring that “the movement towards personalized and individualized computing is an important threat to the aura of mystery that has surrounded the computer for its entire history” (90). And more: The movement of computers into people’s homes makes it important for us personal systems users to focus our efforts toward having computers do what we want them to do rather than what someone else has blessed for us…When computers move into peoples’ homes, it would be most unfortunate if they were merely black boxes whose internal workings remained the exclusive province of the priests…Now it is not necessary that everybody be a programmer, but the potential should be there…(90). from “Homebrewery vs the Software Priesthood,” Byte magazine October 1976 It was precisely the potential for programming or simply novice as well as expert use via an open, extensible, and flexible architecture that Engelbart, Papert and Kay sought to build into their models of the personal computer to ensure that home computers did not become “merely black boxes whose internal workings remained the exclusive province of the priests.” By contrast, as Kay later exhorted his readers in 1977, “imagine having your own self-contained knowledge manipulator in a portable package the size and shape of an ordinary notebook”. Designed to have a keyboard, an NLS-inspired “chord” keyboard, mouse, display, and windows, the Dynabook would allow users to realize Engelbart’s dream of a computing device that gave them the ability to create their own ways to view and manipulate information. Rather than the over-determined post-Macintosh GUI computer which has been designed to pre-empt every user’s possible need with the creation of an over-abundance of ready-made tools such that “those who wish to do something different will have to put in considerable effort,” Kay wanted a machine that was “designed in a way that any owner could mold and channel its power to his own needs…a metamedium, whose content would be a wide range of already-existing and not-yet-invented media” (403). More, Kay understood from reading Marshall McLuhan, that the design of this new metamedium was no small matter for the very use of a medium changes an individual’s, a culture’s, thought patterns. Clearly, he wanted thought patterns to move toward a literacy that involved reading and writing in the new medium instead of the unthinking consumption of ready-made tools, for, crucially, “the ability to ‘read’ a medium means you can access materials and tools created by others. The ability to ‘write’ in a medium means you can generate materials and tools for others. You must have both to be literate”. While Kay envisioned the GUI-like interface of the Dynabook would play a crucial role in realizing this “metamedium,” the Smalltalk software driving this interface was equally necessary. Its goal was “to provide computer support for the creative spirit in everyone” (286). Not surprisingly, Kay and his collaborators began working intensely with children after the creation of Smalltalk-71. Influenced by developmental psychologist Jean Piaget as well as Kay’s own observation of Papert and his colleagues’ use of Logo in 1968, Smalltalk relied heavily on graphics and animation through one particular incarnation of the GUI: the Windows, Icons, Menus, and Pointers (or WIMP) interface. Kay writes that in the course of observing Papert using Logo in schools, he realized that these were children “doing real programming…”:   …this encounter finally hit me with what the destiny of personal computing really was going to be. Not a personal dynamic vehicle, as in Engelbart’s metaphor opposed to the IBM “railroads”, but something much more profound: a personal dynamic medium. With a vehicle one could wait until high school and give “drivers ed”, but if it was a medium, it had to extend into the world of childhood (“The Early History” 81). As long as the emphasis in computing was on learning – especially through making and doing – the target demographic was going to be children and as long as children could use the system, then so too could any adult provided they understood the underlying structure, the how and the why, of the programming language. As Kay astutely points out, “…we make not just to have, but to know. But the having can happen without most of the knowing taking place”. And, as he goes on to point out, designing the Smalltalk user interface shifted the purpose of interface design from “access to functionality” to an “environment in which users learn by doing” (84). And so Smalltalk designers didn’t so much completely reject the notion of readymade software so much as they sought to provide the user with a set of software building blocks from which the user could then combine and/or edit to create their own customized system. Or, as Trygve Reenskaug (a visiting Norwegian computer scientist with the Smalltalk group at Xerox PARC in the late 1970s) put it:  …the new user of a Smalltalk system is likely to begin by using its ready-made  application systems for writing and illustrating documents, for designing aircraft wings, for doing homework, for searching through old court decisions, for composing music, or whatever. After a while, he may become curious as to how his system works. He should then be able to “open up” the application object on the screen to see its component parts and to find out how they work together (166). With an emphasis on learning and building through an open architecture, Adele Goldberg – co-developer of Smalltalk along with Alan Kay and author of most of the Smalltalk documentation – describes the Smalltalk programming environment in this special issue of Byte as one that set out to defy that of the conventional software development environment as illustrated in Figure 1 below: Image by Adele Goldberg contrasting the conventional philosophy of software driven by “wizards” in Figure 1 versus that provided by Smalltalk for the benefit of the programmer/user in Figure 2. The Taj Mahal in Figure 1 “represents a complete programming environment, which includes the tools for developing programs as well as the language in which the programs are written. The users must walk whatever bridge the programmer builds” (Goldberg 18). Figure 2, by contrast, represents a Taj Mahal in which the “software priest” is transformed into one who merely provides the initial shape of the environment which programmers can then modify by building “application kits” or “subsets of the system whose parts can be used by a nonprogrammer to build a customized version of the application” (18). The user or non-programmer, then, is an active builder in dialogue with the programmer instead of a passive consumer of a pre-determined (and perhaps even over-determined) environment. At roughly the same time as Kay began work on Smalltalk in the early 1970s, he was also involved with the team of designers working on the NLS-inspired Xerox Alto which was developed in 1973 as, again, an “interim Dynabook” with a three-button mouse, a GUI which worked in conjunction with the desktop metaphor, and ran Smalltalk. While only several thousand non-commercially available Altos were manufactured, it was – as team members Chuck Thacker and Butler Lampson believe – probably the first computer explicitly called a “personal computer” because of its GUI and its network capabilities. By 1981, Xerox had designed and produced a commercially available version of the Alto, called the 8010 Star Information System, which was sold along with Smalltalk-based software. But as Jeff Johnson et al point out, the most important connection between Smalltalk and the Xerox Star lay in the fact that Smalltalk could clearly illustrate the compelling appeal of a graphical display that the user accessed via mouse, overlapping windows, and icons (22). Screenshot of Xerox Star from Jeff Johnson et al’s “The Xerox Star: A Retrospective.” However, the significance of the Star is partly the indisputable impact it had on the GUI design of first the Apple Lisa and then the Macintosh; its significance is also in the way in which it was clearly labeled a work-station for “business professionals who handle information” rather than a metamedium or a tool for creating or even thinking about thinking. And in fact, the Star’s interface – which was the first commercially available computer born out of work by Engelbart, Papert and Kay that attempted to satisfy both novice and expert users in providing an open, extensible, flexible environment and that also happened to be graphical – was conflicted at its core. While in some ways the Star was philosophically very much in line with the open thinking of Engelbart, Papert, and Kay, in other ways its philosophy as much as its GUI directly paved the way to the closed architecture and consumption-based design of the Macintosh. Take for example the overall design principles of the Star which were aimed at making the system seem “familiar and friendly.” Easy                             Hard concrete                     abstract visible                         invisible copying                      creating choosing                    filling in recognizing               generating editing                        programming interactive                 batch Star designers also avowed to avoid the characteristics they list on the right while adhering to a schema that exemplifies the characteristics listed on the left. While there’s little doubt that ease-of-use was of central importance to Engelbart, Papert and Kay – often brought about through interactivity and making computer operations and commands visible – the avoidance of “creating,” “generating,” or “programming” couldn’t be further from their vision of the future of computing. At the same time as the Star forecloses on creating, generating, and programming through its highly restrictive set of commands in the name of simplicity, it also wants to promote users’ understanding of the system as a whole – although, again, we can see this particular incarnation of the GUI represents the beginning of a shift toward only a superficial understanding of the system. Without a fully open, flexible, and extensible architecture, the home computer becomes less a tool for learning and creativity and more a tool for simply “handling information.” By contrast, as I’ll now talk about, the Apple Macintosh was clearly designed for consumers, not creators. It was marketed as a democratizing machine when in fact it was democratizing only insofar as it marked a profound shift in personal computing away from the sort of inside-out know-how one needed to create on an Apple II to the kind of perfunctory know-how one needed to navigate the surface of the Macintosh – one that amounts to the kind of knowledge needed to click this or that button. The Macintosh was democratic only in the manner any kitchen appliance is democratic. That said, Apple’s redefinition of the overall philosophy of personal computing exemplifies just one of many reversals that abound in this ten year period from the mid-1970s to the mid-1980s. In relation to the crucial change that took place in the mid-1980s from open, flexible, and extensible computing systems for creativity to ones that were closed, transparent, and task-oriented, the way in which the Apple Macintosh was framed from the time of its release in January 1984 represented a near complete purging of the philosophy promoted by Engelbart, Kay, and Papert. This purging of the recent past took place under the guise of Apple’s version of the user-friendly that, among other things, pitted itself against the supposedly “cryptic,” arcane,” “phosphorescent heap” that was the command-line interface as well as, it was implied, any earlier incarnation of the GUI. However, it’s important to note that, while the Macintosh philosophy purged much of what had come before, it did in fact emerge from the momentum gathering in other parts of the computing industry which were particularly concerned to define standards for the computer interface. Up to this point, personal computers were remarkably different from each other. Commodore 64 computers, for example, came with both a ‘Commodore’ key that gave the user access to an alternate character set as well as four programmable function keys that, with the shift button, could each be programmed for two different functions. By contrast, Apple II computers came with two programmable function keys and Apple III, IIc and IIe computers came with open-Apple and closed-Apple keys that provided the user with shortcuts to applications such as cut-and-paste or copy (in the same way that the contemporary ‘command’ key functions). No doubt in response to the difficulties this variability posed to expanding the customer base for personal computers, Byte magazine ran a two-part series in October and November 1982 dedicated to the issue of industry standards by way of an introduction to a proposed uniform interface called the “Human Applications Standard Computer Interface” (or HASCI). Asserting the importance of turning the computer into a “consumer product,” author Chris Rutkowski declares that every computer ought to have a “standard, easy-to-use format” that “approaches one of transparency. The user is able to apply intellect directly to the task; the tool itself seems to disappear” (291, 299-300). Of course, a computer that is easy-to-use is entirely desirable; however, at this point ease-of-use is framed in terms of the disappearance of the tool being used in the name of ‘transparency ‘ – which now means usersfwhi can efficiently accomplish their tasks with the help of a glossy surface that shields them from the depths of the computer instead of the earlier notion of ‘transparency’ which referred to a usesr’s ability to open up the hood of the computer to understand directly its inner workings. Thus, no doubt in a bid to finally produce a computer that realized these ideas and appealed to consumers who are “drivers, not repairmen,” Apple unveiled the Lisa in June 1983 for nearly $10,000 (that’s $23,000 in 2012 dollars) as a cheaper and more user-friendly version of the Xerox Alto/Star which sold for $16,000 in 1981 (which is about $40,000). At least partly inspired by Larry Tesler’s Xerox PARC 1979 demo of the Star to Steve Jobs, the Lisa used a one-button mouse, overlapping windows, pop-up menus, a clipboard, and a trashcan. As Tesler was adamant to point out in a 1985 article on the “Legacy of the Lisa,” it was “the first product to let you drag [icons] with the mouse, open them by double-clicking, and watch them zoom into overlapping windows” (17). The Lisa, then, moved that much closer to the realization of the dream of transparency with, for example, its mode of double-clicking that attempted to have users develop the quick, physical action of double-clicking that bypasses the intellect through physical habit; more, its staggering two 2048K worth of software and three expansion slots also firmly moved it in the direction of a readymade, closed consumer product and definitively away from the Apple II, which, when it was first released in 1977, came with 16K bytes of code and, again, eight expansion slots. Expansion slots symbolize the direction that computing was to take from the moment the Lisa was released, followed by the release of the Macintosh in January 1984, to the present day. Jeff Raskin, who originally began the Macintosh project in 1979, and Steve Jobs both believed that hardware expandability was one of the primary obstacles in the way of personal computing having a broader consumer appeal. In short, expansion slots made standardization impossible (partly because software writers needed consistent underlying hardware to produce widely functioning products) whereas what Raskin and Jobs both sought was a system which was an “identical, easy-to-use, low-cost appliance computer.” At this point, customization is no longer in the service of building, creating or learning – it is, instead, for using the computer as one would any home appliance and ideally this customization is only possible through software that the user drops into the computer via disk just as they would a piece of bread into a toaster. Predictably, then, the original plan for the Macintosh had it tightly sealed so that the user was only free to use the peripherals on the outside of the machine. While team-member Burrell Smith managed to convince Jobs to allow him to add in slots for users to expand the machine’s RAM, Macintosh owners were still “sternly informed that only authorized dealers should attempt to open the case. Those flouting this ban were threatened with a potentially lethal electric shock”. That Apple could successfully gloss over the aggressively closed architecture of the Macintosh while at the same time market it as a democratic computer “for the people” marks just one more remarkable reversal from this period in the history of computing. As is clear in the advertisement below that came out in Newsweek Magazine during the 1984 election cycle, the Macintosh computer was routinely touted as embodying the principle of democracy. While it was certainly more affordable than the Lisa (in that it sold for the substantially lower price of $2495), its closed architecture and lack of flexibility could still easily allow one to claim it represented a decidedly undemocratic turn in personal computing. Thus, 1984 became the year that Apple’s philosophy of the computer-as-appliance, encased in an aesthetically pleasing exterior, flowered into an ideology. We can partly see how their ideology of the user-friendly came to fruition through their marketing campaign which included a series of magazine ads such as the one below— Advertisement for the Apple Macintosh from the November/December 1984 issue of Newsweek Magazine. —along with one of the most well-known TV commercials of the late twentieth century.In the case of the latter, Apple takes full advantage of the powerful resonance still carried by George Orwell’s dystopian, post-World War II novel 1984 by reassuring us in the final lines of the commercial that aired on 22 January 1984 that “On January 24th Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh. And you’ll see why 1984 won’t be like ’1984.’” Apple positions Macintosh, then, as a tool for and of democracy while also pitting the Apple philosophy against a (non-existent) ‘other’ (perhaps communist, perhaps IBM or ‘Big Blue’) who is attempting to oppress us with an ideology of bland sameness. Apple’s ideology, then, “saves us” from a vague and fictional, but no less threatening, Orwellian, and nightmarish ideology. As lines of robot-like people, all dressed in identical grey, shapeless clothing march into the opening scene of the commercial, a narrator of this pre-Macintosh nightmare appears on a screen before them in something that appears to be a propaganda film. We hear, spoken fervently, “Today we celebrate the first glorious anniversary of the Information Purification Directives.” And, as Apple’s hammer-thrower then enters the scene, wearing bright red shorts and pursued by soldiers, the narrator of the propaganda film continues: We have created for the first time in all history a garden of pure ideology, where each worker may bloom, secure from the pests of any contradictory true thoughts. Our Unification of Thoughts is more powerful a weapon than any fleet or army on earth. We are one people, with one will, one resolve, one cause. Our enemies shall talk themselves to death and we will bury them with their own confusion. And just before the hammer is thrown at the film-screen, causing a bright explosion that stuns the grey-clad viewers, the narrator finally declares, “We shall prevail!” But who exactly is the hammer-thrower-as-underdog fighting against? Who shall prevail – Apple or Big Brother? Who is warring against whom in this scenario and why? In the end, all that matters is that, at this moment, just two days before the official release of the Macintosh, Apple has created a powerful narrative of its unquestionable, even natural superiority over other models of computing that continues well into the twenty-first century. It is an ideology that of course masks itself as such and that is born out of the creation of and then opposition to a fictional, oppressive ideology we users/consumers need to be saved from. In this context, the fervor with which even Macintosh team-members believed in the rightness and goodness of their project is somewhat less surprising as they were quoted in Esquire earnestly declaring, “Very few of us were even thirty years old…We all felt as though we had missed the civil rights movement. We had missed Vietnam. What we had was the Macintosh”. Even non-fiction accounts of the Macintosh by non-Apple employees could not help but endorse it in as breathless terms as those used by the Macintosh team-members themselves. Steven Levy’s Insanely Great, from 1994, is a document as remarkable for its wholesale endorsement of this new model of personal computing as any of the Macintosh advertisements and guide-books. Recalling his experience seeing a demonstration of a Macintosh in 1983, he writes: Until that moment, when one said a computer screen “lit up,” some literary license was required…But we were so accustomed to it that we hardly even thought to conceive otherwise. We simply hadn’t seen the light. I saw it that day…By the end of the demonstration, I began to understand that these were things a computer should do. There was a better way (4). The Macintosh was not simply one of several alternatives – it represented the unquestionably right way for computing. And even at the time of his writing that book, in 1993, he still declares that each time he turns on his Macintosh, he is reminded “of the first light I saw in Cupertino, 1983. It is exhilarating, like the first glimpse of green grass when entering a baseball stadium. I have essentially accessed another world, the place where my information lives. It is a world that one enters without thinking of it…an ephemeral territory perched on the lip of math and firmament” (5). But it is precisely the legacy of the unthinking, invisible nature of the so-called “user-friendly” Macintosh environment that has foreclosed on using computers for creativity and learning and that continues in contemporary multi-touch, gestural, and ubiquitous computing devices such as the iPad and the iPhone whose interfaces are touted as utterly invisible (and so their inner workings are de facto inaccessible). References “’1984′ Apple Macintosh Commercial.” Youtube. 27 Aug. 2008. Web. 21 June 2012. Apple Computer Inc. Apple Human Interface Guidelines: The Apple Desktop Interface . Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1987. Bardini, Thierry. Bootstrapping: Douglas Engelbart, Coevolution, and the Origins of Personal Computing . Stanford, CA: Stanford UP, 2000. Chen, Jung-Wei and Jiajie Zhang. “Comparing Text-based and Graphic User Interfaces for Novice and Expert Users.” AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings Archive. 2007. Web. 14 February 2012. Chun, Wendy. Programmed Visions: Software and Memory . Boston, MA: MIT Press, 2011. Engelbart, Douglas. “Augmenting Human Intellect: A Conceptual Framework.” in The New Media Reader . Eds. Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort. Boston, MA: MIT UP, 2003. 95-108. —. “Workstation History and the Augmented Knowledge Workshop.” Doug Engelbart Institute. 2008. Web. 3 April 2011. —, and William English. “A Research Center for Augmenting Human Intellect.” in The New Media Reader . Eds. Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort. Boston, MA: MIT UP, 2003. 233-246. Erickson, Thomas D. “Interface and the Evolution of Pidgins: Creative Design for the Analytically Inclined.” In The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design . Ed. Brenda Laurel. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc., 1990. 11-16 Gassée, Jean-Louis. The Third Apple: Personal Computers amp; the Cultural Revolution . San Diego, New York, London: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Publishers, 1985. Goldberg, Adele. “Introducing the Smalltalk-80 System.” Byte 6:8 (August 1981): 14-26. Hertzfeld, Andy and Steve Capps et al. Revolution in the Valley . Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly, 2005. Ingalls, Daniel. “Design Principles Behind Smalltalk.” Byte 6:8 (August 1981): 286-298. Johnson, Jeff and Theresa Roberts et al. “The Xerox Star: A Retrospective.” Computer 22:9 (September 1989): 11-29. Johnson, Steven. Interface Culture: How New Technology Transforms the Way We Create and Communicate. New York: Basic Books, 1997. Kay, Alan. “The Early History of Smalltalk.” Smalltalk dot org. Web. 5 April 2012. —. “User Interface: A Personal View.” in The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design . Ed. Brenda Laurel. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc., 1990. 191-207. —, and Adele Goldberg. “Personal Dynamic Media.” in The New Media Reader . Eds. Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort. Boston, MA: MIT UP, 2003. 393-409. Levy, Steven. Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution . 25th Anniversary Edition. New York: O’Reilly Media, 2010. —. Insanely Great: The Life and Times of Macintosh, the Computer that Changed Everything . New York: Viking, 1994. Lewis, T.G. “Some Laws of Personal Computing.” Byte 4:10 (October 1979): 186-191. Linden, Ted, Eric Harslem, Xerox Corporation. Office Systems Technology: A Look Into the World of the Xerox 8000 Series Products: Workstations, Services, Ethernet, and Software Development . Palo Alto, CA: Office Systems Division, 1982. “LOGO.” Advertisement. Byte 7:2 (February 1982): 255. Morgan, Chris and Gregg Williams, Phil Lemmons. “An Interview with Wayne Rosing, Bruce Daniels, and Larry Tesler: A Behind-the-scenes Look at the Development of Apple’s Lisa.” Reprinted from Byte magazine 8:2 (February 1983): 90-114. Web. 14 April 2012. Nelson, Theodor. “Computer Lib / Dream Machines.” The New Media Reader . Eds. Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. 303-338. Papert, Seymour. Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas . New York: Basic Books, 1980. Reenskaug, Trygve. “User-Oriented Descriptions of Smalltalk Systems.” Byte 6:8 (August 1981): 148-166. Reimer, Jeremy. “Total share: 30 years of personal computer market share figures.” Ars Technica. 2006. Web. 4 December 2011. Rutkowski, Chris. “An Introduction to the Human Applications Standard Computer Interface: Part 1: Theory and Principles.” Byte 7:10 (October 1982): 291-310. —. “An Introduction to the Human Applications Standard Computer Interface: Part 2: Implementing the HASCI Concept. ” Byte 7:11 (November 1982): 379-390. Smith, David Canfield and Charles Irby et al. “Designing the Star User Interface.” Byte 7:4 (April 1982): 242-282. Tesler, Larry. “The Legacy of the Lisa.” Macworld magazine (September 1985): 17-22. Wardrip-Fruin, Noah. “Introduction.” “A Research Center for Augmenting Human Intellect.” By Douglas Engelbart. in The New Media Reader . Eds. Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort. Boston, MA: MIT UP, 2003. 231-232. “What is Logo?” The Logo Foundation. 2011. Web. 5 April 2012. Whiteside, John and Sandra Jones, Paul S. Levy, Dennis Wixon. “User Performance with Command, Menu, and Iconic Interfaces.” CHI 1985 Proceedings. April 1985. 185-191. Wilber, Mike and David Fylstra. “Homebrewery vs the Software Priesthood.” Byte 14 (October 1976): 90-94. Williams, Gregg. “The Lisa Computer System: Apple Designs a New Kind of Machine.” Product Description. Byte 8:2 (February 1983): 33-50. Wozniak, Steve. “The Apple-II.” System Description. Byte 2:5 (May 1977): 34-43. Filed under: bookbound , criticism , digital , e-literature , history of computing Tagged: Apple , GUI , interface , Macintosh , MLA 2013 , user-friendly 
4150	Yes	Ceci est un exemple de commentaire. Ce blog est protégé des spams et commentaires indésirables par le plugin Akismet. Par défaut, le blog est réglé en semi-modération a priori: un commentaire n’est publié qu’après validation, sauf ceux d’un auteur déjà validé, qui apparaissent immédiatement. Ces paramètres peuvent être modifiés dans la section Reglages/Commentaires. 
4151	Yes	 Seventeen minutes. It seems tedious to watch the video: they just keep doing the same thing. But then you imagine it from their point of view: this is only seventeen minutes out of hours and hours, days and days of bent-over labor.
4152	Yes	I’m not a camera pro. I have some photos on Flickr , but it’s just for fun, so I don’t really need a new camera. But I do want one. Thing is, there a lot of cameras out there, but none of them has the Goldilocks factor. None has the right mix of features, size, and price that makes me happy. I now have an old Canon Rebel XTi , Panasonic Lumix LX3 , and GoPro HD Hero 2 in my camera bag, but I began to feel an itch when I realized my 50mm F1.8 was broken in some way. It’s a laughably cheap lens with plastic mount, so it’s not surprising that I might have broken it over the years, but the discovery sullied my feelings about the body as well. Here’s what I’m looking for (roughly in priority order): Sufficient manual control to shoot in aperture priority all the time with EV adjustment Autofocus Wide angle Fast lens Compact Big sensor Easy custom white balance controls Remote trigger Affordability (intentionally undefined) Articulated screen Compatibility with some flash system, maybe GPS I have and love a Canon EF-S 10-22mm , so there is that reason to stick with Canon, but I’m not married to it. I would consider the Sony NEX 7 and 10-18mm lens , for example, but that combo totals very near $2,000 and violates my vague notion of affordability. And please don’t suggest I can save money by using my Canon 10-22mm on the Sony body with an adapter, as I’d lose autofocus with combo. Another strike against the NEX is the relatively slow maximum aperture of the lens lineup . The 10-22mm is F3.5-4.5, but there are plenty of faster lenses in the Canon lineup at other focal lengths (such as my cheap 50mm, and the one I’d likely replace it with). I really like the compact size of my LX3, and the new Lumix LX7 looks like a good upgrade . Its 24mm lens is just within my requirements, but its F1.4 maximum aperture is the best of the pack. The lens isn’t interchangeable, but it’s a lens I can be happy with and the size is perfect. The sensor is small compared even to APS-C standards, but bigger than on a point-n-shoot and big enough to get some shallow depth of field effects. On the down side it doesn’t appear to support any sort of remote triggering and I don’t feel there’s a good flash system for a strobe novice like myself to connect with. Canon’s new EOS M interchangeable lens compact looks interesting. It has the same imaging sensor, processor, and menu controls as the Rebel T4i , but in a smaller package without the mirror. Unfortunately, it also lacks many of the controls the Rebel has, so even putting the EOS M into aperture priority mode requires some surprising menu gymnastics. It also doesn’t appear to have any option for remote triggering and no articulated screen. With an adapter it can mount my 10-22mm with autofocus and other features, so at least there’s that. The Rebel T4i the EOS M is descended from might be a good choice. In my list of wants it only misses with famously complex custom white balance controls and its large size compared to the others I’ve considered so far. Hate me if you want, but shooting RAW means shooting slowly and promising yourself you’ll balance your images when you get home. I like the option to shoot RAW, but my default is JPEG. I’ve looked at Panasonic and Olympus Micro Four Thirds cameras. There are some very good models among them, and there’s at least one good wide angle lens available as well. Like the NEX, however, the lens lineup appears slow, but combined with the smaller sensor size of these cameras it will be even more difficult to get depth of field effects from these cameras. These cameras also face the same price issue as the NEX: my 10-22mm lens is incompatible and I’ll have to buy a replacement, significantly increasing the price. The following table scores these cameras on my feature list. The total assumes equal weight for all features, which is not necessarily reasonable, but gives me something to work with. Feature comparison Camera Lumix LX7 Canon EOS M Canon Rebel T4i Sony NEX 7 Manual control 1 0.5 1 1 Autofocus 1 1 1 1 Wide angle 1 1 1 1 Fast lens 1 0.5 0.5 0.5 Compact 1 0.5 0 0.5 Big sensor 0.5 1 1 1 Easy custom white balance 1 0 0 0 Remote trigger 0 0.5 1 0.5 Affordability 1 0.5 1 0 Articulated screen 0 0 1 1 Compatibility with some flash system, maybe 0 1 1 0.5 GPS 0 0 0 0 Total feature score 7.5 6.5 8.5 7 Price comparison, with lens Camera Lumix LX7 Canon EOS M Canon Rebel T4i Sony NEX 7 Camera price $449.00 $714.00 $648.00 $1,098.00 Lens Built-in 24-90mm F1.4-2.3 10-22mm (with adapter ) 10-22mm F3.5-4.5 (16-35mm equivalent) 10-18mm F4 (15-27mm equivalent) Lens price $0.00 $868.97 $679.00 $848.00 Total with lens $449.00 $1,582.97 $1,327.00 $1,946.00 Total to me $449.00 $903.97 $648.00 $1,946.00 The EOS M lens price includes adapter. The price to me assumes I’ll use my 10-22mm lens on cameras its compatible with, rather than buy another. The results of these tables easily excludes Sony, but also shows how nearly perfect the LX7 is for me. Yes, the Rebel T4i scores better, but I’d happily give up flash system compatibility for compact size, and that evens the scores. The LX7′s compact size is truly remarkable. While the other options are compact with certain lenses, the LX7 is the most compact, almost-pocketable option for all the focal lengths it supports. The EOS M or NEX 7 might look small with a pancake lens, but not with my 10-22mm or a fast 50mm. And more than just compact, the LX7 lens is fast throughout its range, and much faster at the wide end than any of the other options in this list. Sadly, the LX7 doesn’t appear to have any option to trigger the shutter remotely (the EOS M and NEX 7 support infrared remotes, the Rebel T4i supports both wired and wireless remotes). So what are these cameras missing? What would make the decision easy for any of them? I would buy the LX7 in an instant if it had some option for a remote shutter trigger. The NEX 7 would be great if it were compatible with Canon lenses. The EOS M would be great if it had working manual controls and an articulated screen (two features Sony was able to squeeze into the NEX 7). Support for wired remotes would be great too, but I’d honestly jump at this if it just supported better manual control and didn’t appear to be hobbled for marketing purposes. The Rebel T4i appears to be a great camera, just significantly larger than the other contenders and larger than I want. My current Rebel stayed at home when I went to Europe with my LX3 (and iPhone) recently . As it is, any purchase now feels like settling. 
4153	Yes	For more than half a year now, I’ve been trying to get an issue tracker fully implemented for our IT team within the library. I admit that I’m still working on it. Getting the system up and running was easy enough, but trying to work it into people’s workflow isn’t so easy. Choosing the Issue Tracker There are a lot of issue trackers out there, but we are a small team and I wanted the issue tracker running easily and quickly. It’s not something I wanted to spend a lot of time getting up and running, because we had a lot of other projects happening. Other requirements included: support multiple projects non-members being able to report issues support email issue management (either built-in or plugin) low to no cost preferable support CAS or LDAP login (either built-in or plugin) documentation area and/or wiki code repository integration open source I asked around a little bit, and these were the recommendations I got: Asana: 2 FogBugz: 1 Against: 1 Footprints: – Against: 1 Github: 2 JIRA: – Against: 2 Pivotal Tracker: – Against: 1 Redmine: 5 Request Tracker:  1 Against: 1 SupportPress (for WordPress): 1 Trac: 3 Against: 1 Trac and Redmine seemed to be the two forerunners. My problem with Trac was that it didn’t have clear project organization, and no one could confirm that the email issue management plugin worked. Installation amp; Setup Our system administrator took a couple of (not full) days to get it installed and going, and following the instructions were apparently fairly easy. Then it took me maybe half a day to set up all the projects and users with the settings I wanted. The e-mail creation also worked well out of the box. We just had to make sure we had the right settings for what we wanted. Staff Issue Creation amp; Management In order to make it so that staff can file issues without ever having to see Redmine, I created a form in our Intranet (webform module in Drupal). The form had most of the standard fields: Name: automatically filled in with username E-mail: also automatically filled in Related to: options which were essentially the project names Need: options equivalent to tracker e.g. Support, Bug Fix, etc. Priority: options equivalent to priority Summary: email subject line, which then turns into issue name Description: issue details Once it’s submitted, a copy is sent to our team’s email. Through a cron job (every 5 minutes or so), the email is picked up, and filed. If the user already exists in the system, Redmine will use the email from the user account to match it to the user, they will automatically become the ‘reporter’ of the issue, and get a copy. If the user does not exist in the system, Redmine will say that ‘Anonymous’ reported it. The will always happen the first time someone reports an issue as I did not add everyone on staff to the system. So, the first time this happens, I then add the user to the system, and add them as a watcher to the issue. The one issue I ran into was that I forgot you have to set both the email plugin and each project to accept issues from anonymous users. Simple carelessness really. Getting Staff to Change their Workflow I think the hardest part with implementing any issue tracker is getting staff to use it. Within the team, it hasn’t been too difficult. We have a small team and the developers in particular have no problems using it. The only problem I sometimes have is making sure they close issues when they’re done with them. But even within the team, sometimes it can be difficult to get people to report issues using Redmine. While our manager wanted us to start using it just for the website, it has worked well enough, so we’re strategizing how to get the rest of the staff using it now. We’ve concluded that it kind of needs to be an all or nothing. So we’ve decided that all non-urgent issues should be done through the intranet form regardless of the project, and that should people email us, we’re going to be emailing them back to submit it through the form. For any urgent issues and for immediate support, they can still call us. After all, trying to walk someone through editing something on our website or intranet is much easier by phone anyway. Before we start enforcing it, we’ll be introducing this workflow to staff through various committee meetings in part to gather feedback. So… we’ll see how it goes. Filed under: Project work , Technology , Work culture 
4154	Yes	 Via BBC “French tanks were closing in on this storied caravan city on the night of Jan. 23, when the al Qaeda-backed militants who had governed Timbuktu since April left a departing blow. They broke into one of the world’s most valuable libraries, ripping centuries-old manuscripts from shelves. Then they torched these priceless artifacts, in a scene of destruction that horrified scholars around the world,” the Wall Street Journal  reported yesterday. This, after months of destruction, which included demolishing many sites central to Mali’s cultural heritage. Via Pulitzer Center But thanks to a mix of old- and new-school preservation tools and strategies — donkey, the old “hide ‘em under the floorboards” trick, and digitization — most of the 30 to 40,000 manuscripts survived. Prof. Abdoulaye Cissé and security guard Abba Alhadi told the Journal that “an estimated 28,000 of the library’s artifacts were smuggled out of town by donkey cart.” “[T]he people of Timbuktu have a centuries-old tradition of protecting and preserving their manuscripts,” the BBC reported . As South African researcher Mohamed Mathee explained to reporters, Malians “think on their feet when faced with these challenges… They take the documents to family homes and store them safely.” Plus, since the Ahmed Baba Institute was founded in 1973, Timbuktu has grown a network of official places of refuge — both physical and virtual — for its manuscripts , where the documents are preserved and digitized. By Alexandra Huddleston Last year Chris Bentley, a student in my Archives, Libraries amp; Databases graduate seminar , wrote a fantastic paper on Timbuktu’s Mamma Haïdara Commemorative Library. While we certainly celebrate the role that these preservation and digitization efforts have played in averting recent disaster, we also can’t ignore the complicated politics of such internationally-funded efforts. Chris, who served for two years in the Peace Corps in Mali, writes: I found it difficult to balance the potential value the manuscripts may yield to scholarship with the internationally funded institutional practice of swooping in, building tangible monuments to donors’ generosity and skipping town – a tactic foreign aid and development organizations have mastered… While this is an improvement over the colonial practice of removing cultural artifacts from occupied regions, it is still a display of power and wealth that removes the manuscripts from their previous associations (with the descendents of the historian who started the collection) and places them in a sterile, secure, new environment that greater resembles Western methods of organization than Malian. You can read the full paper here . 
4155	Yes	 Beatrice the Biologist: How the Brain Works . 
4156	Yes	I’m incredibly excited to announce a new project. I’ve been invited to guest-edit a special issue of the open access online journal Ada: A Journal of Gender, New Media and Technology , on feminist science fiction. Ada is just one of the projects from the FemBot collective , a group of feminist academics, activists and artists working on media and technology; I’m proud to be a part of the collective. To bring new media studies together with speculative fiction in a venue like this one is an absolute dream of mine –– albeit one I didn’t realize I had until Carol Stabile invited me to work on the issue. Its success is dependent on the submissions we get, of course. Please write to me at ada@queergeektheory.org if you are interested in contributing, even if all you have so far is an amorphous idea. The full call for papers is posted at the FemBot collective’s website , and I have also pasted it below. *** Ada: A Journal of Gender, New Media, and Technology | adanewmedia.org Issue 3: Feminist Science Fiction. In the 1985 essay that defined the terms for feminist thinking about science and technology in the decades since, Donna Haraway observed that “the boundary between science fiction and social reality is an  optical illusion.” She drew together the cybernetic organisms of fact and fiction, the beings of shiny technology and messy biological stuff, and her terms and her ideas came as much from the creative thinkers of feminist science fiction (Octavia Butler, Joanna Russ) as they did from technologists, political thinkers, and philosophers. It’s 2013, and the cyborg manifesto is old enough to vote. Where are feminist science fictions now, and what can they tell us about feminism and technology? New media make our experiences of social reality resonant with classics of speculative fiction, particularly works that accounted for the uneven distribution of futuristic technologies and their participation in hierarchies of race, gender, capital, and ability. Literary scholars continue to explore the intricacies of works by Octavia Butler, James Tiptree Jr., Joanna Russ, et al., while the aesthetic and political techniques of critical and creative speculative thinking that these writers pioneered are taken up in multiple forms. Fiction writers like Nalo Hopkinson, Andrea Hairston, L. Timmel Duchamp, and many more bring questions of language, culture, race, and violence into the fray, as social media platforms like blogs, twitter, and Facebook deepen conversations between writers and fans. Small presses continue to support the older technology of the printed page and to articulate why written visions matter for a possible feminist future. Feminist science fiction has never only existed between the bindings of books, however. Fictional speculation is part of how we understand ourselves in relationship to technology; from the way our smartphones seem to extend our embodied being, to the difference it makes when we shift our perspective and think instead of the being of the gendered bodies who made them, to the imaginative constructions we produce of the wireless waves and fiber optic cables that link us to collaborators, interlocutors, and friends. Ada is published by the Fembot Collective’s academic network, which is itself a feminist science fiction. An imagined array of co-conspirators made real, its name indexes the power in reworking the venerable sci-fi trope of the gendered automaton. Technological speculation is our social reality, and feminist science fiction has the tools to code it to the specifications of our politics. Feminist science fiction describes a diverse landscape of multimodal, multiplatform, multifaceted cultural production. It is a means for thinking marked bodies into technological contexts, from Ada Lovelace herself to Janelle Monae’s racialized android Cindi Merriweather. It is also the visual and conversational online cultures that endlessly repeat, reblog, argue, and fight back about what real and imagined futures of gender, race, technology, and representation ought to be like. It may even be the new philosophical modalities of materialist speculation, when they acknowledge that the hierarchized markings on bodies we name as race and gender are not limited to some narrowly defined conception of the human. And it is the unpredictable future of what cybernetics and organisms could be and could become, in the flesh and in plastic, silicon, steel. The third issue of Ada: A Journal of Gender, New Media and Technology seeks essays on any of these and more. We welcome unpublished work from scholars of any discipline and background, including collaborative, nontraditional, or multimodal approaches that can especially benefit from the journal’s open access online status. Topics and approaches might include, but are not limited to: • Key works of feminist science fiction and their relevance for new media and technology studies • Gender, race, sexuality, and/or disability in science fiction literature, film, and television • Feminist speculation in new media production • Feminist science fiction’s online fan cultures • Speculative or science-fictional tropes in new media and technology theory and practice General Submission Requirements Authors should submit essays of 4000-9000 words directly to the editor in Rich Text Format (.rtf) or MS Word format (.doc) by 1 May 2013 (preliminary deadline). We encourage you to discuss potential contributions in advance of the submission deadline. Contributions in formats other than the traditional essay are encouraged; please contact the editor to discuss specifications. Full submissions should be accompanied by the following information in the email message with your submission attachment: • Name(s), affiliation(s), email address(es) of the person(s) submitting. • Title of the text and the issue for which it is submitted. • An abstract of no more than 100 words. • A short paragraph (40-60 words) about the contributor(s). Further guidelines for submission format can be found here: http://adanewmedia.org/submissions/ Please include text descriptions for images and transcripts or subtitles for audio or video files. Send submissions and correspondence to Alexis Lothian: ada@queergeektheory.org About Ada   Ada is an online, open access, open source, peer-reviewed journal run on a nonprofit basis by feminist media scholars from Canada, the UK, and the US. The journal’s first issue was published online in November 2012 and has so far received more than 75,000 page views. Ada operates a review process that combines the feminist mentorship of fan communities with the rigor of peer review. Read more at http://adanewmedia.org/beta-reader-and-review-policy/. We do not — and will never — charge fees for publishing your materials, and we will share those materials using a Creative Commons License. 
4157	Yes	 The author picking spinach in February. What role should a state museum, like the Connecticut Historical Society (CHS), play in preserving and interpreting the history of agriculture and food? How can such an organization tell the history in a way that fits its specific mission, institutional strengths and priorities? I ask these questions from a several perspectives. I am a Professor of History and Public History Program Coordinator at Central Connecticut State University where I teach courses in museum studies and material culture that regularly use the museum’s collection. I am also a member of CHS’s Collections Steering Committee and Deaccession Task Force, two groups charged with enhancing the collection’s strength, relevance, and overall quality. Finally, I’m interested on a very personal level as someone deeply involved in the local food movement as a 4- season gardener on my own city lot and a regular volunteer at Urban Oaks Organic Farm , a 12-year old farm in an urban food desert. These perspectives make me see both the potential for agriculture and food history, but also make me cautious about committing limited resources to its pursuit. It is clear to me that local food advocates could be a wonderful audience. I know them to be a community that thinks broadly about issues, understands complex social and economic forces, and is dedicated to their cause. I also believe that there is a natural synergy between local food advocates’ desire to connect with producers and merchants in their area and a historical society’s mission to cultivate a sense of place. Both are searching for a deeper connection with their community and both regularly seek out that which is distinctive or unique. It’s also worth recognizing that the historically- and environmentally-minded share an orientation to the future as they preserve resources for the next generation. But I also wonder to what degree local food advocates would become a long-term audience for the museum. Is this an audience whose interests will be limited to programs designed specifically around food and agriculture themes? Is this an audience that will support the museum with donations or volunteer time? Again relying on my own observations, local food advocates have an activist agenda and seek not just knowledge or experience, but the chance to effect social change. If a historical society does not address that aspect of their motivation, is the match really a good fit? I look forward to hearing from other museum professionals with more experience in this area. Beyond the question of cultivating local food advocates as a museum audience is a historical society’s responsibility to collect and preserve this fundamental aspect of the state’s history. Having worked on CHS’s deaccession and collecting committees for several years, I’m very cognizant of the need to collect strategically. Staff and storage are both limited resources and must be used wisely. For starters, this means not replicating what has already been done. With Old Sturbridge Village, one of the country’s largest living history museums less than an hour away, CHS has an opportunity to move beyond the traditional focus on early American tools and farming techniques and create a collecting strategy with relevance to the local food movement. What would such a collecting strategy look like? What, specifically, would we collect? I am just beginning to think about these issues (and have not even considered the question of how to acquire items), but I already see potential for collecting in several areas: History of the seed industry in Connecticut . A few years ago, I attended a session at the Connecticut Chapter of the Northeast Organic Farmers Association conference in which founders of the Hudson Valley Seed Library explained how they had used the artwork on 19th and early 20th century seed packages to identify recovered heirloom varieties. CHS currently has several seed catalogues in its collection. Additional materials would provide valuable insight into this central agricultural industry. History of home food production . Home food production is a subject of particular importance to today’s local food movement. Earlier traditions include Victory Gardens, back-to-the land movements, and the distinct practices of ethnic immigrants. Already in the collections are books by Adelma Simmons (1903-1997), a well-known herbalist who promoted home herb gardening. The Simmons’s materials are good reminder that the recent past has a history that is ripe for collecting too. History of cooking and foodways. Students in my museum studies class recently completed a small exhibit using CHS’s cookbook collection. Cookbooks are often narrowly interpreted as culinary history, a history limited to cooking methods, recipes, ingredients, and gastronomic traditions. But working with these materials helped me see that they also could reveal a lot about our relationship to food. I was particularly struck by how well the cookbooks documented changes in food sources, particularly the rise of prepackaged convenience foods. Clearly, the areas above are just a start. I am especially interested in collecting materials that reveal developments in labor practices, business history, the market economy, and government policies. I look forward to brainstorming with public historians, farmers, and local food movement proponents. ~ Briann Greenfield, Central Connecticut State University 
4158	Yes	
4159	Yes	Pew Internet Research reports that e-book reading went up in 2012 while print reading declined . The survey of 2,252 Americans conducted from October to November found 23 percent of Americans aged 16 or older read electronic books, compared to 16 percent a year ago. Simultaneously, printed book reading declined from 72 to 67 percent. 
4160	Yes	This morning’s Observer column . Michael Gove is possibly the most unpopular minister in the government, but on Wednesday he made a courageous and enlightened decision. On that day, the Department for Education announced that computer science will be included in the science options for the Ebacc (English baccalaureate), which is one of Mr Gove’s keystone reforms of the school curriculum. Given the amount of hostility there is to these reforms, this development attracted little attention, but in the long run it could turn out to be a really big deal. Why? Because it signals a determination to undo an educational disaster that’s been running for decades in British schools – the ICT (information and communications technology) curriculum. This was based on the idea that most of what the young needed to be taught about computing was how to use software. In practice, this turned out to be learning how to use Microsoft Office. For both the schoolchildren who had to endure this, and the teachers who had to instruct them, this was a demoralising and dysfunctional experience. Kids would come home from school complaining (as my children did): “Dad, you’ll never guess what we had to do today – PowerPoint!” The result was that ICT became the educational world’s equivalent of a toxic brand. 
4161	Yes	 Most teachers are those who, not surprisingly, have made it through the educational system smoothly enough to replicate it, even when they think of themselves as radical reformers of that system. Especially English teachers. English teachers are the gatekeepers to the normal brained. (I see this all the time when I am hanging out with my computer and technology pals. I no longer remember much math but, when I’m with them, my blood pressure goes down, and so does theirs when I assure them that, although an English teacher, I’m dyslexic. Whew. I can feel the relief. Whew.) — Cathy N. Davidson . 
4162	Yes	 The Economist article on Islam and science is focused on reporting the good news that science is returning to Muslim countries: that rulers (sigh, rulers) and governments are funding universities and research at levels even the West would envy. That is good news. The article makes a surprising turn, however, that make the Islamic world [...]
4163	Yes	Bei der Durchsicht des Sammelbandes Geschichtsdidaktische Schulbuchforschung (hg. von Saskia Handro / Bernd Schönemann, 2. Auflage Berlin 2011) ist mir aufgefallen, dass einige der an Schulgeschichtsbüchern kritisierten Punkte eigentlich auf das Konto der zugrundliegenden Lehrpläne und nicht der Schulbücher gehen. Soweit ich das sehe, wird das aber in keinem der verschiedenen Aufsätze thematisiert. Schulbücher müssen [...] 
4164	Yes	"Connected Memories" by María Mencía and José Carlos Silvestre : This narrative hypertext poem is creates a web of semantic and spacial associations between short excerpts from interviews of refugees living in London. The ethnographic dimension of this piece lends weight to the work as one realizes that these snippets of text are from people’s life stories. The keywords that float on the screen and pull up narrative fragments can be understood as tags in a database. Some common ones ( listed in Mencía’s site ) are: war run away prison money walk university pressure shoot government refugee passport kill papers documents survived help job work understand country afraid scare understand place went back flat successful happy mother father family brother sons daughter fear prison accommodation hotel room scared interpreter husband wife country help english job flee detention asylum life college memories integrated forget pregnant border genocide religion escape agent airport illegal rape hide money belong foreigner services lost after you university shoot militia extremist speak hospital travel frighten live children settle pressure These are not light matters, and the interface wisely treats them with respect, connecting them in ways that strengthen their voice collectively. As readers select words on the screen, narrative excerpts appear, along with other instances of the same keyword and other related ones. As one continues to activate and read other texts, previously selected ones remain on screen for a time, slowly rotating on a three-dimensional axis until they eventually fly apart in multiple kinds of animations and fading away. This evokes a sense of the oral origins of the piece, not in their kinetic qualities, but in the way they linger: present but not quite re-readable. These clips are a visual echo of their screen utterance— reverberating throughout each unique performance. 
4165	Yes	 Arches is an open-source, web-based, geospatial information system for cultural heritage inventory and management. Purpose-built for the international cultural heritage field, Arches is designed to record all types of immovable heritage, including archaeological sites, buildings and other historic structures, landscapes, and heritage ensembles or districts.  Read a joint statement  from the leaders of the Getty Conservation Institute and World Monuments Fund, the organizations that have partnered to lead the development of Arches. Filed under: Websites of Interest Tagged: heritage management , open source 
4166	Yes	 Legless , originally uploaded by jjn1 . I came on this surreal scene on Friday morning. What the photograph doesn’t show is a frustrated van driver who’d been ordered to deliver these mannequins to a shop in town but found when he arrived that his instructions failed to specify which shop! So he’d ben unloading them in the hope that eventually one of his phone calls to base would be answered. 
4167	Yes	 leftofblack : Left of Black S3:E11 | Everyday Racism, Everyday Homophobia November 26, 2012 On Thursday, November 8, 2012, HASTAC (Humanities, Arts, Science and Technology Advanced Collaboratory) sponsored Everyday Racism, Everyday Homophobia:  A Symposium on the Intersections of Race, Gender, and Sexuality at the John Hope Franklin Center at Duke University.  The event featured Jack Halberstam , Professor of English and Director of The Center for Feminist Research at University of Southern California, and author of the recently published Gaga Feminism: Sex, Gender, and the End of Normal (Beacon);  Marlon Ross , Professor on English at the University of Virginia and author  of  Manning the Race: Reforming Black Men in the Jim Crow Era (NYU Press); Kathryn Bond Stockton , Distinguished Professor of English and Gender Studies at the University of Utah and author of Beautiful Bottom, Beautiful Shame: Where “Black” Meets “Queer” ; and Sharon Patricia Holland , Associate Professor of English and African amp; African American Studies at Duke University and the author of the just published The Erotic Life of Racism (Duke University Press).  The event was moderated by Left of Black host and Duke University Professor, Mark Anthony Neal . *** Left of Black is a weekly Webcast hosted by Mark Anthony Neal and produced in collaboration with the John Hope Franklin Center at Duke University. *** Episodes of Left of Black are also available for free download in  @ iTunes U Continue reading → 
4168	Yes	 William G. Thomas : “The emergence of the MOOC offers another opportunity, one that humanities and STEM faculty should embrace. But the justifications Coursera and Friedman have offered ring hollow and the unrestrained hyperbole about the “reinvention” of higher education could have the reverse effect of shutting down experimentation with MOOCs, just when we need it most. That would be a shame.” 
4169	Yes	When I was 12 years old, I went with my family to see the Robin Williams movie Dead Poets Society . One of the movie’s main characters is a troubled, sensitive teenager whose actions are controlled by his overbearing father. Here’s the description, pulled from Wikipedia , of one of the key events of the film (warning: contains spoilers): Without his father’s knowledge, he auditions for the role of Puck in a production of A Midsummer Night’s Dream . His father finds out and orders Neil to withdraw. Neil asks Keating for advice and is advised to talk to his father and make him understand how he feels, but Neil cannot muster the courage to do so. Instead he goes against his father’s wishes. His father shows up at the end of the play, furious. He takes Neil home and tells him that he intends to enroll him in a military school to prepare him for Harvard University and a career in medicine. Unable to cope with the future that awaits him or to make his father understand his feelings, Neil commits suicide. It’s hard for me to put into words how powerfully I reacted to Neil’s story. Twelve-year-old me, tortured by a constant feeling that I was different , that I was wrong , felt a deep connection to Neil. It was right around this time that I realized I was gay; that realization was paired with a certainty that I would have to hide my gayness from the world for my entire life. I felt in Neil a queerness that matched the queerness growing inside me. So, when Neil chose suicide, my heart broke for both of us. I sobbed through the final minutes of the movie, cried quietly in the car, then slunk off to my room to cry in privacy for god knows how long. Last night, at this year’s LGBTQ Pride Film Festival , the Quarryland Men’s Chorus performed a song by Stephen Schwartz called “Testimony.” It’s a song written in response to the “It Gets Better” Project, and although there’s no footage that I know of yet from the Quarryland performance, I’m including a video of the San Francisco Gay Men’s Chorus singing the song. Watching this performance last night, I was brought powerfully back to my experience of watching Dead Poets Society, sitting in the dark, surrounded by my family and very much alone. It gets better, I’m happy to report. It gets amazing. But I didn’t know that at the time. At the time I only knew that I couldn’t be what I knew I was. At the time I only knew that I didn’t know how to live inside myself.               Tweet This Post 
4170	Yes	 Is the lecture dead? asks The Atlantic. The answer is no, but perhaps the penchant journalists have for writing needlessly provocative headlines should be. What makes it worse is the clichés to which the lecture, apparently, must be subjected: A great lecturer’s benefit to learners extends far beyond preparing for an exam, earning a good [...]
4171	Yes	 Over at IPWatchdog , Gene Quinn has responded to what he perceives as rampant copyright infringement by his audience "made up of lawyers, lobbyists, inventors, Staffers, artists" by adding some javascript that blocks copy and paste. Luckily I have Safari and Readability , so it doesn't affect me, but I am concerned for the many communities who depend on copy and paste in one way or another for access to information. Here is the post , translated in its entirety, for use by those who find it easier to read Igpay Atinlay, than the usual jargon-filled legal mumbo-jumbo: Iway amway easedplay otay announceway atthay inway Anuaryjay 2013 eway adhay ourway iggestbay onthmay everway inway ermstay ofway affictray otay IPWatchdogway.omcay. Uringday ethay astlay Arterquay ofway 2012 eway averagedway 89,260 uniqueway isitorsvay erpay onthmay. Inway Anuaryjay 2013 eway adhay 101,922 uniqueway isitorsvay, ichwhay epresentsray owthgray ofway 14.2%. Eadersray avehay obablypray oticednay atthay eway areway ublishingpay oremay articlesway, andway eway areway uckylay otay ontinuecay otay avehay away owinggray umbernay ofway eriodicpay uestgay ontributorscay andway egularray eaturedfay olumnistscay asway ellway, ichwhay ikelylay accountsway orfay omesay ofway isthay increasedway affictray. Oweverhay, anotherway ingthay atthay almostway ertainlycay accountsway orfay isthay ubstantialsay umpjay inway isitorsvay isway ethay actfay atthay inway earlyway Anuaryjay 2013 eway ademay ethay ecisionday otay isableday opyingcay andway astingpay omfray IPWatchdogway.omcay. Isthay ashay ausedcay omesay otay ecomebay itequay agitatedway ithway usway, ithway oremay eoplepay anthay ouyay ightmay expectway itingwray otay elltay usway atthay ifway eythay areway onay ongerlay ableway otay opycay andway astepay ourway articlesway enthay eythay illway onay ongerlay eadray IPWatchdogway.omcay. Osay ywhay ethay angechay? 1. Eefray Ontentcay andway ethay Advertiserway Upportedsay Odelmay Orfay omesay imetay Iway avehay ownknay atthay eway avehay eenbay experiencingway atwhay eemedsay otay ebay away atherray argelay opyrightcay infringementway oblempray. Orfay exampleway, Iway owknay ofway eryvay argelay entitiesway atthay outinelyray ouldway opycay andway astepay ourway articlesway, emoveray inkslay andway anyway advertisementway andway enthay assmay istributeday ustjay ethay exttay ofway ourway articlesway. Isthay isway obviousway, atantblay andway illfulway opyrightcay infringementway. Utbay atwhay asway articularlypay ishearteningday asway atthay isthay asway oinggay onway ithinway ethay intellectualway opertypray ommunitycay. Isappointingday eallyray, ecausebay ifway osethay owhay areway inway ethay industryway andway orkingway ithway ontentcay eatorscray andway inventorsway onway away ailyday asisbay areway allway ootay illingway otay engageway inway atthay ypetay ofway opyrightcay infringementway, atwhay opehay oday eway avehay asway ontentcay eatorscray? Osethay osewhay ivelihoodslay ependday uponway ontentcay eatorscray andway inventorsway ouldshay ebay ethay onesway owhay ostmay understandway ethay amageday atthay isway ausedcay ybay idespreadway opyrightcay infringementway. Iway avehay eardhay argumentsway omfray osethay ithinway ethay industryway atthay avehay ademay itway ifficultday otay etermineday etherwhay aughinglay orway yingcray isway ethay ightray esponseray. Orfay exampleway, Iway avehay eardhay ethay argumentway atthay Iway ouldshay ebay atefulgray atthay osay anymay eoplepay antway otay opycay andway istributeday ymay articlesway andway atteredflay atthay eoplepay antway otay eadray ourway itingswray. Itway isway, ofway oursecay, atteringflay atthay erethay areway anymay owhay eadray atwhay eway itewray onway away equentfray asisbay; onay oubtday aboutway itway. Utbay, allowway emay otay atestay atwhay ouldshay otherwiseway ebay obviousway. Eway ivegay ourway articlesway awayway orfay eefray inway atwhay isway alledcay anway advertiserway upportedsay odelmay. Underway anway advertiserway upportedsay odelmay ontentcay isway ovidedpray orfay eefray andway advertisingway onway ethay itesay isway ethay ourcesay ofway evenueray. Anymay ewspapersnay andway onlineway agazinesmay employway isthay odelmay, andway atthay isway ethay odelmay eway employway atway IPWatchdogway.omcay. Eway avehay away eatgray oupgray ofway onsorsspay andway advertisersway andway ithoutway emthay Iway ouldcay otnay evoteday ullfay-imetay otay IPWatchdogway.omcay. Usthay, ourway eefray ontentcay, advertiserway upportedsay odelmay equiresray usway otay enticeway eadersray otay omecay otay ourway ebsiteway andway eadray ourway alityquay, eefray ontentcay atthay isway ullfay ofway analysisway andway insightway. Itway oesday usway absolutelyway onay oodgay enwhay erethay isway idespreadway isseminationday ofway exttay ithoutway advertisementsway. Atthay aymay ebay eferablepray otay ethay eaderray, utbay itway ouldway ebay anway impossibleway usinessbay odelmay otay upportsay ithoutway eingbay independentlyway ealthyway orway away enefactorbay atthay antedway otay underwriteway uchsay isseminationday. Inway ermstay ofway onsorsspay andway advertisersway… Iway eallyray oday elievebay eway avehay away eatgray oupgray ofway olksfay. Eway areway approachedway omfray imetay otay imetay aboutway advertisingway andway eway eclineday, andway eway onglay agoway avegay upway onway Ooglegay Adsway atthay ightmay advertiseway ingsthay eway elievebay otay ebay inadequateway ervicessay (allshay eway aysay). Ifway ouyay avehay evernay ookedlay atway ethay ervicessay offeredway ybay ourway onsorsspay andway advertisersway, easeplay oday. Everythingway ourway onsorsspay andway advertisersway offerway ouldshay ebay attractiveway otay oneway orway anotherway egmentsay ofway ethay industryway andway eythay akemay itway ossiblepay orfay usway otay ontinuecay otay expandway andway ingbray ontentcay atthay isway othbay originalway andway uniqueway. 2. Uestgay Ontributorscay andway Eaturedfay Olumnistscay Iway ontinuecay otay itewray anymay ofway ethay articlesway atthay areway ublishedpay onway IPWatchdogway.omcay, utbay overway imetay ymay itingwray endeavorsway avehay artedstay otay increasinglyway ocusfay onway interviewsway ithway industryway ewsnay-akersmay, itingwray aboutway industryway eventsway Iway attendway (uchsay asway ethay AIPLAWAY annualway eetingmay orway IOBAY annualway eetingmay, orfay exampleway) andway ethay eeminglysay endlessway equestsray orfay ommentscay onway ethay oposedpray  andway inalfay ulesray omulgatedpray ybay ethay Unitedway Atesstay Atentpay andway Ademarktray Officeway. Otnay otay entionmay, enwhay assmay ediamay atantlyblay ieslay aboutway ethay atentpay ystemsay Iway alsoway aketay upway atthay argechay. Isthay eaveslay ittlelay imetay otay itewray aboutway interestingway atentpay itigationslay, Ederalfay Ircuitcay ecisionsday andway ademarktray orway opyrightcay attersmay, otay amenay utbay away ewfay. Iway alsoway itewray aboutway iotechbay andway armaphay omfray away olicypay evellay, utbay Iway onday’tay avehay articularizedpay industryway owledgeknay aboutway ethay usinessbay orway eepday understandingsway aboutway ethay omplicatedcay iencescay involvedway. Usthay, Iway avehay urnedtay otay uestgay iterswray oremay andway oremay otay overcay esethay opicstay insteadway. Atwhay isthay eansmay ostmay irectlyday isway atthay irstfay, Iway oday otnay itewray allway ofway ethay articleway ublishedpay onway IPWatchdogway.omcay, ichwhay ouyay ightmay inkthay isway elfsay evidentway incesay inway irtuallyvay allway asescay ethay icturepay andway iefbray iographicalbay informationway aboutway eachway authorway isway ominentlypray isplayedday atway ethay optay ofway eachway articleway. Andway econdsay, itway eansmay atthay anway importantway artpay ofway ymay ailyday objay ownay isway asway away uetray Editorway. Eway areway onstantlycay ookinglay orfay interestingway oriesstay, onstantlycay ishingday opictay ideasway otay oneway orway anotherway ofway ourway uestgay ontributorscay orway eelancefray ournalistsjay, orway ookinglay orfay ethay ightray ersonpay owhay aymay ebay ableway otay ontributecay. Enthay uponway ettinggay ontributionscay Iway ogay oughthray emthay asway anway Editorway ouldway. Ethay ortshay ofway itway isway isthay — increasinglyway itway eemedsay anymay eoplepay inway ethay industryway ereway unawareway atthay IPWatchdogway.omcay ublishedpay uestgay ontributionscay espiteday ethay actfay atthay inway 2012 eway ublishedpay 148 uestgay ontributionscay andway eway avehay ublishedpay away otaltay ofway 375 uestgay ontributionscay otay ateday. Owhay ouldcay eoplepay owhay eadray articlesway ithway eatgray etailday andway antedway otay alktay otay emay aboutway ethay opictay ofway anway articleway Iway idnday’tay itewray otnay owknay Iway idnday’tay itewray ethay articleway enwhay ethay authorway isway osay ominentlypray isplayedday? Itway eemedsay earclay atthay ethay istributionday ofway exttay onlyway ievay eway-ailmay andway otherway ourcessay asway eatergray anthay Iway adhay understoodway itway otay ebay. Isthay obviouslyway isway otnay airfay otay osethay owhay uestgay ontributecay otay IPWatchdogway.omcay otay etgay eirthay amenay outway intoway ethay industryway. Oreovermay, asway equentfray eadersray owknay, Iway amway otnay adverseway otay ublishingpay ingsthay atthay Iway oday otnay agreeway ithway yselfmay. Eway areway evernay oinggay otay ublishpay antiway-IPWAY articlesway, utbay ignoringway atwhay osethay owhay avehay ifferentday opinionsway ithinway ourway industryway avehay otay aysay akesmay orfay anway uninterestingway echoway amberchay. Illstay, evenway oughthay away articularpay ositionpay isway ithinway anway envelopeway ofway ideasway eldhay ithinway ethay industryway Iway ouldway eferpray otay ebay udgedjay ybay atwhay Iway itewray, otnay atwhay omeonesay elseway otewray andway eway ecidedday otay ublishpay. 3. Ubiousday Argumentsway inway Avorfay ofway Opyingcay Iway avehay eenbay ontactedcay ybay oremay anthay away ewfay eoplepay incesay ohibitingpray opyingcay andway astingpay. Osethay owhay aketay ethay imetay otay ontactcay emay invariablyway elltay emay atthay ifway eythay areway otnay oinggay otay ebay ableway otay opycay ethay exttay andway useway itway orfay ateverwhay urposepay eythay avehay onvincedcay emselvesthay isway appropriateway enthay eythay illway opstay eadingray IPWatchdogway.omcay. Atthay isway, ofway oursecay, eirthay ightray.  Ifway opyingcay exttay isway away erequisitepray otay eadingray eelyfray availableway, alityquay ontentcay enthay Iway amway orrysay otay eesay emthay ogay asway eadersray, utbay atthay isway eirthay oicechay otnay inemay. Itway eemssay atthay erethay isway oremay anthay eetsmay ethay eyeway, oweverhay. Inway oneway asecay anway individualway oldtay emay atthay ehay asway opyingcay allway ofway ethay exttay omfray allway ofway ourway articlesway osay atthay ehay ouldcay earchsay orfay anway articleway aterlay. Atthay, oweverhay, isway unnecessaryway incesay IPWatchdogway.omcay ashay away atherray oodgay earchsay eaturefay. Iway owknay itway isway oodgay ecausebay Iway useway itway allway ethay imetay enwhay ookinglay orfay articlesway onway away articularpay opictay atthay Iway owknay Iway otewray eviouslypray.  Ivegay itway away ytray — Earchsay IPWatchdogway.omcay. Atthay eingbay ethay asecay, itway eemssay atthay ethay “Iway antway otay ebay ableway otay earchsay” argumentway isway eallyray away eciousspay argumentway atthay isway eingbay usedway otay ustifyjay omethingsay elseway. Inway anotherway asecay Iway adhay anway attorneyway atway anway IPWAY irmfay elltay emay atthay ehay ikedlay oneway ofway ethay interviewsway Iway adhay oneday andway atthay otherway attorneysway atway ishay officeway ouldway urelysay antway otay eadray ethay interviewway, utbay ehay idnday’tay owknay atwhay otay oday incesay Iway isabledday opyingcay andway astingpay. Ehay asnway’tay amiliarfay ithway owhay ehay ouldway ebay ableway otay areshay ethay interviewway ithway emthay. Eallyray? Ymay uggestionsay asway otay endsay ishay ellowfay attorneysway away inklay. Iway owknay… Iway owknay… away eallyray adicalray ideaway andway ardlyhay obviousway. Iway ointedpay outway, oweverhay, atthay onceway allway ofway ethay egmentssay ofway ethay interviewway areway ublishedpay Iway alwaysway yperlinkhay emthay ogethertay. Ouyay implysay eadray otay ethay endway ofway ethay egmentsay andway ickclay “ONTINUECAY EADINGRAY.” Ouyay areway agicallymay akentay otay ethay extnay installmentway andway osay onway. Ethay amesay isway uetray enwhay Iway ublishpay anway articleway atthay isway ootay onglay orfay away inglesay egmentsay. Osay isthay articularpay eciousspay argumentway inway avorfay ofway opyingcay andway astingpay asway eallyray othingnay oremay anthay ayingsay: “eway antway otay eadray ouryay articlesway, utbay Iway antway otay opycay ethay exttay osay atthay Iway ancay eway-ailmay itway otay owhay Iway antway osay eythay ancay eadray itway ithoutway isitingvay ouryay itesay.” Asway entionedmay alreadyway, atthay oesnday’tay enefitbay emay andway itway oesnday’tay oday anythingway otay enefitbay ourway onsorsspay, advertisersway orway uestgay ontributorscay eitherway. Onclusioncay Itway isway itequay unfortunateway atthay inway anway industryway erewhay eway akemay away ivinglay orkingway orfay andway ithway ontentcay eatorscray ofway oneway indkay orway anotherway, anymay ofessionalspray ignoreway ethay ightsray ofway ontentcay eatorscray. Iway onday’tay ikelay atthay opycay otectionpray isway ecessarynay utbay Iway’may alsoway otnay oolishfay enoughway otay elievebay atthay ethay opycay otectionpray Iway’evay installedway isway oolprooffay.  Ifway omeonesay ithway omputercay illsskay antsway otay efeatday ethay opycay otectionpray eythay illway, utbay atthay oesnday’tay eanmay Iway ancay orway ouldshay akemay itway easyway orfay ourway ontentcay otay ebay isappropriatedmay. Orfay osethay owhay illway ontinuecay otay eadray usway evenway ithway opycay andway astepay isabledday, eway eatlygray appreciateway ouyay akingtay away ortionpay ofway ouryay ayday otay eadray ourway oughtsthay andway analysisway. Thanks to Timothy Lee for the heads-up . 
4172	Yes	 Over at IPWatchdog , Gene Quinn has responded to what he perceives as rampant copyright infringement by his audience "made up of lawyers, lobbyists, inventors, Staffers, artists" by adding some javascript that blocks copy and paste. Luckily I have Safari and Readability , so it doesn't affect me, but I am concerned for the many communities who depend on copy and paste in one way or another for access to information. Here is the post , translated in its entirety, for use by those who find it easier to read Igpay Atinlay, than the usual jargon-filled legal mumbo-jumbo: Iway amway easedplay otay announceway atthay inway Anuaryjay 2013 eway adhay ourway iggestbay onthmay everway inway ermstay ofway affictray otay IPWatchdogway.omcay. Uringday ethay astlay Arterquay ofway 2012 eway averagedway 89,260 uniqueway isitorsvay erpay onthmay. Inway Anuaryjay 2013 eway adhay 101,922 uniqueway isitorsvay, ichwhay epresentsray owthgray ofway 14.2%. Eadersray avehay obablypray oticednay atthay eway areway ublishingpay oremay articlesway, andway eway areway uckylay otay ontinuecay otay avehay away owinggray umbernay ofway eriodicpay uestgay ontributorscay andway egularray eaturedfay olumnistscay asway ellway, ichwhay ikelylay accountsway orfay omesay ofway isthay increasedway affictray. Oweverhay, anotherway ingthay atthay almostway ertainlycay accountsway orfay isthay ubstantialsay umpjay inway isitorsvay isway ethay actfay atthay inway earlyway Anuaryjay 2013 eway ademay ethay ecisionday otay isableday opyingcay andway astingpay omfray IPWatchdogway.omcay. Isthay ashay ausedcay omesay otay ecomebay itequay agitatedway ithway usway, ithway oremay eoplepay anthay ouyay ightmay expectway itingwray otay elltay usway atthay ifway eythay areway onay ongerlay ableway otay opycay andway astepay ourway articlesway enthay eythay illway onay ongerlay eadray IPWatchdogway.omcay. Osay ywhay ethay angechay? 1. Eefray Ontentcay andway ethay Advertiserway Upportedsay Odelmay Orfay omesay imetay Iway avehay ownknay atthay eway avehay eenbay experiencingway atwhay eemedsay otay ebay away atherray argelay opyrightcay infringementway oblempray. Orfay exampleway, Iway owknay ofway eryvay argelay entitiesway atthay outinelyray ouldway opycay andway astepay ourway articlesway, emoveray inkslay andway anyway advertisementway andway enthay assmay istributeday ustjay ethay exttay ofway ourway articlesway. Isthay isway obviousway, atantblay andway illfulway opyrightcay infringementway. Utbay atwhay asway articularlypay ishearteningday asway atthay isthay asway oinggay onway ithinway ethay intellectualway opertypray ommunitycay. Isappointingday eallyray, ecausebay ifway osethay owhay areway inway ethay industryway andway orkingway ithway ontentcay eatorscray andway inventorsway onway away ailyday asisbay areway allway ootay illingway otay engageway inway atthay ypetay ofway opyrightcay infringementway, atwhay opehay oday eway avehay asway ontentcay eatorscray? Osethay osewhay ivelihoodslay ependday uponway ontentcay eatorscray andway inventorsway ouldshay ebay ethay onesway owhay ostmay understandway ethay amageday atthay isway ausedcay ybay idespreadway opyrightcay infringementway. Iway avehay eardhay argumentsway omfray osethay ithinway ethay industryway atthay avehay ademay itway ifficultday otay etermineday etherwhay aughinglay orway yingcray isway ethay ightray esponseray. Orfay exampleway, Iway avehay eardhay ethay argumentway atthay Iway ouldshay ebay atefulgray atthay osay anymay eoplepay antway otay opycay andway istributeday ymay articlesway andway atteredflay atthay eoplepay antway otay eadray ourway itingswray. Itway isway, ofway oursecay, atteringflay atthay erethay areway anymay owhay eadray atwhay eway itewray onway away equentfray asisbay; onay oubtday aboutway itway. Utbay, allowway emay otay atestay atwhay ouldshay otherwiseway ebay obviousway. Eway ivegay ourway articlesway awayway orfay eefray inway atwhay isway alledcay anway advertiserway upportedsay odelmay. Underway anway advertiserway upportedsay odelmay ontentcay isway ovidedpray orfay eefray andway advertisingway onway ethay itesay isway ethay ourcesay ofway evenueray. Anymay ewspapersnay andway onlineway agazinesmay employway isthay odelmay, andway atthay isway ethay odelmay eway employway atway IPWatchdogway.omcay. Eway avehay away eatgray oupgray ofway onsorsspay andway advertisersway andway ithoutway emthay Iway ouldcay otnay evoteday ullfay-imetay otay IPWatchdogway.omcay. Usthay, ourway eefray ontentcay, advertiserway upportedsay odelmay equiresray usway otay enticeway eadersray otay omecay otay ourway ebsiteway andway eadray ourway alityquay, eefray ontentcay atthay isway ullfay ofway analysisway andway insightway. Itway oesday usway absolutelyway onay oodgay enwhay erethay isway idespreadway isseminationday ofway exttay ithoutway advertisementsway. Atthay aymay ebay eferablepray otay ethay eaderray, utbay itway ouldway ebay anway impossibleway usinessbay odelmay otay upportsay ithoutway eingbay independentlyway ealthyway orway away enefactorbay atthay antedway otay underwriteway uchsay isseminationday. Inway ermstay ofway onsorsspay andway advertisersway… Iway eallyray oday elievebay eway avehay away eatgray oupgray ofway olksfay. Eway areway approachedway omfray imetay otay imetay aboutway advertisingway andway eway eclineday, andway eway onglay agoway avegay upway onway Ooglegay Adsway atthay ightmay advertiseway ingsthay eway elievebay otay ebay inadequateway ervicessay (allshay eway aysay). Ifway ouyay avehay evernay ookedlay atway ethay ervicessay offeredway ybay ourway onsorsspay andway advertisersway, easeplay oday. Everythingway ourway onsorsspay andway advertisersway offerway ouldshay ebay attractiveway otay oneway orway anotherway egmentsay ofway ethay industryway andway eythay akemay itway ossiblepay orfay usway otay ontinuecay otay expandway andway ingbray ontentcay atthay isway othbay originalway andway uniqueway. 2. Uestgay Ontributorscay andway Eaturedfay Olumnistscay Iway ontinuecay otay itewray anymay ofway ethay articlesway atthay areway ublishedpay onway IPWatchdogway.omcay, utbay overway imetay ymay itingwray endeavorsway avehay artedstay otay increasinglyway ocusfay onway interviewsway ithway industryway ewsnay-akersmay, itingwray aboutway industryway eventsway Iway attendway (uchsay asway ethay AIPLAWAY annualway eetingmay orway IOBAY annualway eetingmay, orfay exampleway) andway ethay eeminglysay endlessway equestsray orfay ommentscay onway ethay oposedpray  andway inalfay ulesray omulgatedpray ybay ethay Unitedway Atesstay Atentpay andway Ademarktray Officeway. Otnay otay entionmay, enwhay assmay ediamay atantlyblay ieslay aboutway ethay atentpay ystemsay Iway alsoway aketay upway atthay argechay. Isthay eaveslay ittlelay imetay otay itewray aboutway interestingway atentpay itigationslay, Ederalfay Ircuitcay ecisionsday andway ademarktray orway opyrightcay attersmay, otay amenay utbay away ewfay. Iway alsoway itewray aboutway iotechbay andway armaphay omfray away olicypay evellay, utbay Iway onday’tay avehay articularizedpay industryway owledgeknay aboutway ethay usinessbay orway eepday understandingsway aboutway ethay omplicatedcay iencescay involvedway. Usthay, Iway avehay urnedtay otay uestgay iterswray oremay andway oremay otay overcay esethay opicstay insteadway. Atwhay isthay eansmay ostmay irectlyday isway atthay irstfay, Iway oday otnay itewray allway ofway ethay articleway ublishedpay onway IPWatchdogway.omcay, ichwhay ouyay ightmay inkthay isway elfsay evidentway incesay inway irtuallyvay allway asescay ethay icturepay andway iefbray iographicalbay informationway aboutway eachway authorway isway ominentlypray isplayedday atway ethay optay ofway eachway articleway. Andway econdsay, itway eansmay atthay anway importantway artpay ofway ymay ailyday objay ownay isway asway away uetray Editorway. Eway areway onstantlycay ookinglay orfay interestingway oriesstay, onstantlycay ishingday opictay ideasway otay oneway orway anotherway ofway ourway uestgay ontributorscay orway eelancefray ournalistsjay, orway ookinglay orfay ethay ightray ersonpay owhay aymay ebay ableway otay ontributecay. Enthay uponway ettinggay ontributionscay Iway ogay oughthray emthay asway anway Editorway ouldway. Ethay ortshay ofway itway isway isthay — increasinglyway itway eemedsay anymay eoplepay inway ethay industryway ereway unawareway atthay IPWatchdogway.omcay ublishedpay uestgay ontributionscay espiteday ethay actfay atthay inway 2012 eway ublishedpay 148 uestgay ontributionscay andway eway avehay ublishedpay away otaltay ofway 375 uestgay ontributionscay otay ateday. Owhay ouldcay eoplepay owhay eadray articlesway ithway eatgray etailday andway antedway otay alktay otay emay aboutway ethay opictay ofway anway articleway Iway idnday’tay itewray otnay owknay Iway idnday’tay itewray ethay articleway enwhay ethay authorway isway osay ominentlypray isplayedday? Itway eemedsay earclay atthay ethay istributionday ofway exttay onlyway ievay eway-ailmay andway otherway ourcessay asway eatergray anthay Iway adhay understoodway itway otay ebay. Isthay obviouslyway isway otnay airfay otay osethay owhay uestgay ontributecay otay IPWatchdogway.omcay otay etgay eirthay amenay outway intoway ethay industryway. Oreovermay, asway equentfray eadersray owknay, Iway amway otnay adverseway otay ublishingpay ingsthay atthay Iway oday otnay agreeway ithway yselfmay. Eway areway evernay oinggay otay ublishpay antiway-IPWAY articlesway, utbay ignoringway atwhay osethay owhay avehay ifferentday opinionsway ithinway ourway industryway avehay otay aysay akesmay orfay anway uninterestingway echoway amberchay. Illstay, evenway oughthay away articularpay ositionpay isway ithinway anway envelopeway ofway ideasway eldhay ithinway ethay industryway Iway ouldway eferpray otay ebay udgedjay ybay atwhay Iway itewray, otnay atwhay omeonesay elseway otewray andway eway ecidedday otay ublishpay. 3. Ubiousday Argumentsway inway Avorfay ofway Opyingcay Iway avehay eenbay ontactedcay ybay oremay anthay away ewfay eoplepay incesay ohibitingpray opyingcay andway astingpay. Osethay owhay aketay ethay imetay otay ontactcay emay invariablyway elltay emay atthay ifway eythay areway otnay oinggay otay ebay ableway otay opycay ethay exttay andway useway itway orfay ateverwhay urposepay eythay avehay onvincedcay emselvesthay isway appropriateway enthay eythay illway opstay eadingray IPWatchdogway.omcay. Atthay isway, ofway oursecay, eirthay ightray.  Ifway opyingcay exttay isway away erequisitepray otay eadingray eelyfray availableway, alityquay ontentcay enthay Iway amway orrysay otay eesay emthay ogay asway eadersray, utbay atthay isway eirthay oicechay otnay inemay. Itway eemssay atthay erethay isway oremay anthay eetsmay ethay eyeway, oweverhay. Inway oneway asecay anway individualway oldtay emay atthay ehay asway opyingcay allway ofway ethay exttay omfray allway ofway ourway articlesway osay atthay ehay ouldcay earchsay orfay anway articleway aterlay. Atthay, oweverhay, isway unnecessaryway incesay IPWatchdogway.omcay ashay away atherray oodgay earchsay eaturefay. Iway owknay itway isway oodgay ecausebay Iway useway itway allway ethay imetay enwhay ookinglay orfay articlesway onway away articularpay opictay atthay Iway owknay Iway otewray eviouslypray.  Ivegay itway away ytray — Earchsay IPWatchdogway.omcay. Atthay eingbay ethay asecay, itway eemssay atthay ethay “Iway antway otay ebay ableway otay earchsay” argumentway isway eallyray away eciousspay argumentway atthay isway eingbay usedway otay ustifyjay omethingsay elseway. Inway anotherway asecay Iway adhay anway attorneyway atway anway IPWAY irmfay elltay emay atthay ehay ikedlay oneway ofway ethay interviewsway Iway adhay oneday andway atthay otherway attorneysway atway ishay officeway ouldway urelysay antway otay eadray ethay interviewway, utbay ehay idnday’tay owknay atwhay otay oday incesay Iway isabledday opyingcay andway astingpay. Ehay asnway’tay amiliarfay ithway owhay ehay ouldway ebay ableway otay areshay ethay interviewway ithway emthay. Eallyray? Ymay uggestionsay asway otay endsay ishay ellowfay attorneysway away inklay. Iway owknay… Iway owknay… away eallyray adicalray ideaway andway ardlyhay obviousway. Iway ointedpay outway, oweverhay, atthay onceway allway ofway ethay egmentssay ofway ethay interviewway areway ublishedpay Iway alwaysway yperlinkhay emthay ogethertay. Ouyay implysay eadray otay ethay endway ofway ethay egmentsay andway ickclay “ONTINUECAY EADINGRAY.” Ouyay areway agicallymay akentay otay ethay extnay installmentway andway osay onway. Ethay amesay isway uetray enwhay Iway ublishpay anway articleway atthay isway ootay onglay orfay away inglesay egmentsay. Osay isthay articularpay eciousspay argumentway inway avorfay ofway opyingcay andway astingpay asway eallyray othingnay oremay anthay ayingsay: “eway antway otay eadray ouryay articlesway, utbay Iway antway otay opycay ethay exttay osay atthay Iway ancay eway-ailmay itway otay owhay Iway antway osay eythay ancay eadray itway ithoutway isitingvay ouryay itesay.” Asway entionedmay alreadyway, atthay oesnday’tay enefitbay emay andway itway oesnday’tay oday anythingway otay enefitbay ourway onsorsspay, advertisersway orway uestgay ontributorscay eitherway. Onclusioncay Itway isway itequay unfortunateway atthay inway anway industryway erewhay eway akemay away ivinglay orkingway orfay andway ithway ontentcay eatorscray ofway oneway indkay orway anotherway, anymay ofessionalspray ignoreway ethay ightsray ofway ontentcay eatorscray. Iway onday’tay ikelay atthay opycay otectionpray isway ecessarynay utbay Iway’may alsoway otnay oolishfay enoughway otay elievebay atthay ethay opycay otectionpray Iway’evay installedway isway oolprooffay.  Ifway omeonesay ithway omputercay illsskay antsway otay efeatday ethay opycay otectionpray eythay illway, utbay atthay oesnday’tay eanmay Iway ancay orway ouldshay akemay itway easyway orfay ourway ontentcay otay ebay isappropriatedmay. Orfay osethay owhay illway ontinuecay otay eadray usway evenway ithway opycay andway astepay isabledday, eway eatlygray appreciateway ouyay akingtay away ortionpay ofway ouryay ayday otay eadray ourway oughtsthay andway analysisway. Thanks to Timothy Lee for the heads-up . 
4173	Yes	Today I found the following resources and bookmarked them on Delicious . ProjectLibre ProjectLibre is an open source alternative to Microsoft Project. gpapers gPapers is an open-sourced, Gnome based digital library manager and scientific paper organizer. FET FET is open source free software for automatically scheduling the timetable of a school, high-school or university. F-Spot F-Spot is a cross platform application for organizing thousands of photos. Elgg Elgg is an award-winning open source social networking engine that provides a robust framework on which to build all kinds of social environments, from a campus wide social network for your university, school or college or an internal collaborative platform for your organization through to a brand-building communications tool for your company and its clients. Claroline Claroline is an open source platform for collaborative e-learning and working online. Available in a wide number of different languages, Claroline can be downloaded for free and freely installed. Digest powered by RSS Digest The post Bookmarks for February 3, 2013 appeared first on What I Learned Today... . Related posts: Another News API A Wiki goes Social Harvard Business School approves open-access policy 
4174	Yes	 Voyant Word Cloud of 1908 Address Here at the University of Alberta we return for inspiration to the founding President’s words at the 1908  Address to the First Convocation . In particular we have taken to heart Henry Marshall Tory’s words about “uplifting the whole people.” Here is the relevant paragraph, In many of the older universities men of merit were deprived of the privileges which they offered sometimes by creed or class legislation. The modern state university has sprung from a demand on the part of the people themselves for intellectual recognition, a recognition which only a century ago was denied them. The result is that such institutions must be conducted in such a way as to relate them as closely as possible to the life of the people. The people demand that knowledge shall not alone be the concern of scholars. The uplifting of the whole people shall be its final goal. This should be the concern of all educated men, it be never be forgotten. The phrase “uplifting of the whole people” has become the promise of the University though I doubt many of us think about it more than casually. In Tory’s address it is connected with nation building and civilization. Every state in the USA has a university, now every province in Canada will get one. The state university has a special responsibility to the people. There is also a strong thread of praire populism to the address. He recognizes that universities have excluded people and been sites of privilege, something to be corrected in the “modern state university” that lists to the demands of the people and relates to them. Tory touches on a number of other issues in his talk that we should also think through. He talks about the importance of pure intellect to the university. He connects this with “the highest ideals of life.” [Universities] have arisen as a result of the demand of the intellect pure and simple. Quite apart from practical results, the restless energy of the human mind, slow to accomplish results, but never resting in its efforts, has demanded that a place should be found where men may be given an opportunity to fit themselves by rigid training to solve the problems of life. Thus it has become the task of the university to hold up the highest ideals of life; to help create in the hearts of men and to sustain in them a love for those things which are higher than food and raiment; to emphasize the teaching of the greatest of all teachers that man’s life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. It has become a part of their recognized responsibility to instill a love of those things which really constitute greatness; to emphasize the things of the mind above those of the body; in relation national life to place patriotism above party; in our relations to others to place love above hate; in our relation to knowledge to choose truth and not error; in our relations to ourselves to be men not things. He returns later to these high ideals which turn out to be echoed in the “moral and spiritual sense of the Christian world” which has triumphed over materialism. The university is to be a place that fosters ideals that are consistent with the Christian world and not a “materialistic philosophy.” Did I say materialism was dead? I say it again! Man knows that he is greater than the clod and in that knowledge lies his supremacy. The age of thought has only begun. In spite of the practical and materialistic philosophy which expresses itself still [in] the commercial spirit of the age I assert the deepest conviction of my being that thought and mind are still supreme. We who teach may be called idealists. Let me say to you that the idealist still lives and lifts his head to the stars and declares the impossible can be accomplished. All the ages of progress have been his ages and when the spirit of a material age is dead and the philosophy of materialism is forgotten the idealist will still be conquering the world. Tory touches on the importance of faculty and admonishes that faculty not be treated as “state officers.” The members of the university staff must not be thought of in the ordinary way as state officers. They must rather be regarded in the light of independent thinkers and scholars who are to bring us into that appreciation of those higher things about which I was speaking a moment ago. He then goes on to talk about teaching and giving faculty the freedom to teach well. He trusts us to handle this freedom with discretion. Our professors are first of all teachers. To them the largest freedom must be given. It is their duty to push into the heart of things that the truth and nothing but the truth may be, discovered. I am sure they will temper freedom with discretion. While on the whole the address is remarkably current there are two dated and distasteful aspects. First of all is the sexism of the language that talks only of men and manhood. There is no recognition that women might be part of the whole people. I hear the echo of muscular and rational Christianity in this address. Secondly there is a race consciousness or pride in Alberta’s youth and mingling of peoples that strikes me as vanity. We are not a degenerate race, we are a race produced by the mingling of the best blood. We are not yet dissolute in temper, but still have the firmness to govern and the grace to obey. We are rich in the inheritance of honour bequeathed to us through a thousand years of noble history and we may make it our daily thirst to increase it with splendid service, so that if it be a sin to covet honour, Canadians should be the most offending souls alive. 
4175	Yes	 1. Raging (Again) Against the Robots “Android anxiety has a long history.” 2. Drowned in a Stream of Prescriptions “Various studies have estimated that 8 percent to 35 percent of college students take stimulant pills to enhance school performance.” 3. In Hard Economy for All Ages, Older Isn’t Better … It’s Brutal “Ms. Zimmerman has fashioned her own regimen of home remedies – including eating blue cheese instead of taking penicillin and consuming plenty of orange juice, red wine, coffee and whatever else the latest longevity studies recommend – to maintain her health, which she must do if she wants to continue paying the bills.” 4. Basketball Prospector “At his apartment in Forest Hills, Mr. Konchalski prepares the report every three weeks on a typewriter. He does not use a computer, a cellphone or an answering machine – and he has never driven a car.” 5. A Mercedes With Tenure “It’s a marvelous piece of machinery, so uncomplicated.” 6. The Most Wanted Gun in America “There are a lot of young men in the U.S. who will never be in the military but feel that male compulsion to warriorhood. Owning an assault weapon is a passport to that.” 7. The Boys at the Back “Teachers of classes as early as kindergarten factor good behavior into grades – and girls, as a rule, comport themselves far better than boys.” 8. Why Police Lie Under Oath “Are police officers necessarily more trustworthy than alleged criminals? I think not.” 9. Stormy Weather: Blues in Winter “I consider philosophy my survival kit.” 10. Upside of Distraction “It took me a long time to realize that the utter domination of my consciousness by the desire to write well was itself the problem. Monomania, a 19th-century malady to which my 21st-century immune system had developed no defenses, had crept into my soul, like gout into a poet’s foot, and spoiled it by degrees.” 11. Making Coming Attractions More Attractive “They reveal too much. They don’t reveal enough. They’re misleading. They’re manipulative. They’re better than both the movie they’re previewing and the movie that’s about to start. They delay that movie by 20 minutes.” 12. Conceiving Frankenstein “Was it simply spun out of the imagination of a brilliantly neurotic young author? Or is it better described as the work of a highly educated woman grappling with the darker implications of early-19th-century scientific research?” 13. Just Don’t Call It a Drone “Dozens of colleges with aviation programs now offer courses in unmanned aerial systems, and several universities have recently added majors.” 14. Virtually There: Working Remotely “Ms. Fitzpatrick, 20, is among a growing number of students taking on virtual internships – positions that don’t require students ever to set foot in the office.” 15. You, Too, Can Make It Work “I always say I have a Socratic approach to most things that I do. I pummel people with questions, because I need to know what they’re thinking, what they’re trying to achieve, what they believe the final outcome is going to be. And then I try to examine their work with them, and articulate as well as I can how well they are actually achieving those goals, or whether they are in fact delusional.” 16. North Dakota Went Boom “North Dakota has had oil booms before but never one so big, never one that rivaled the land rush precipitated more than a century ago by the transcontinental railroads, never one that so radically changed the subtext of the Dakota frontier from the Bitter Past That Was to the Better Future That May Yet Be.” 17. How to Write Yourself Into Existence “The next Shakespeare will be a hacker possessing programming skills and A.D.D.-like gift for multitasking, which is more or less how the original Shakespeare emerged – using and stealing the technology of his time (other plays, books, oral history) and filling the Globe with its input.” Filed under: new york times 
4176	Yes	 Detail of a miniature of King Garamantes, being rescued by his dogs; from the Rochester Bestiary, England (Rochester?), c. 1230, Royal MS 12 F. xiii , f. 30v Recently we examined cats in medieval manuscripts .  But what about man#39;s best friend, thedog?  Dogs were, then as now, renowned fortheir loyalty.  Medieval tomb effigiessometimes included a dog resting at the feat of the deceased, indicating the loyalty of the dead man himself, a faithful retainer to hislord. Miniatures of a sheepdog, a hunting dog in pursuit of a stag, a hunting dog in pursuit of a hare, and (bottom) the story of the dog mourning by the body of his murdered master and identifying the killer; from a bestiary, England, 2nd or 3rd quarter of the 13th century (after 1236), Harley MS 3244 , f. 45r This quality of loyalty works its way into many of thestories told about dogs in bestiaries.  Aking named Garamantes was once captured by his enemies.  He was freed, however, when his hundreds ofdogs spontaneously charged, attacking the men who held him prisoner, andleading him back to safety.  In anotherstory, a man was murdered by his enemy. His faithful dog was inconsolable, and stood beside the corpse, howlingand drawing a crowd of onlookers.  When themurderer saw this crowd gathering, he thought to allay suspicion by minglingwith the throng.  But the dog was notfooled.  He attacked the murderer, bitinghim and continuing to howl in mourning. Faced with such a clear accusation, the murderer confessed. Detail of a Miniature of Sir Lancelot, in conversation with a lady holding a small dog on her lap; from Morte Artu , France (St Omer or Tournai?), c. 1315-1325, Royal MS 14 E. iii , f. 146r Dogs in medieval manuscripts are most often hunting hounds,chasing down hares, or dogs fierce in defence of their masters.  But lap dogs also appear in medieval texts:small, aristocratic animals who were the companions of fashionable ladies.  Sir Tristan, so the story goes, sailed to France, wherethe king#39;s daughter fell in love with him. But Tristan was already in love with Isolde, the wife of his uncle KingMark, and refused the princess#39;s advances. She sent to him love letters, though, as well as a small dog, namedHusdent.  While the affair with theFrench princess was one-sided and short-lived, Husdent himself would go on tobecome an important part of Tristan#39;s story. Devastated that he could not be with the married Isolde, Tristan losthis senses and ran into the forest to live as a wild man.  On returning to civilization some time later,he was so altered from his ordeal that Isolde did not recognize him.  But the faithful Husdent immediately knew hismaster, and Tristan#39;s true identity was revealed. Miniature of the personification of Gluttony, riding on the back of a wolf; from the Dunois Hours, France (Paris), c. 1440-c. 1450 (after 1436), Yates Thompson MS 3 , f. 168v Man#39;s faithful companion also had a more wild andthreatening counterpart. If dogs were symbols of loyalty, wolves werepersonifications of greed.  Isidore ofSeville observed, correctly, that the Latin word for wolf ( lupus ) gave rise to a slang term for prostitute ( lupa ). These women were said to be greedy for financial gain, and so weretermed #39;she-wolves#39;. A she-wolf from mythology: detail of a miniature of (foreground) two men digging a grave for the Rhea Silvia, the princess and Vestal Virgin sentenced to death for bearing Romulus and Remus, the twin sons of the god Mars, who are shown behind with the she-wolf ( lupa ) that raised them after their usurping great-uncle cast them out to die; from a French translation of Giovanni Boccacio, De claribus mulieribus , France (Rouen), c. 1440, Royal MS 16 G. v , f. 55r Just as dogs were shown as helpful working animals, theprotectors of the flock, wolves were the greedy thieves who ran off with thesheep.  But a wolf needed to be carefullest he be caught in the act, since he shared one of his cousin#39;s majorweaknesses: dog breath.  The smellybreath of a wolf could, the bestiaries claimed, give him away as he crept up onhis prey, alerting the watching sheepdogs. A canny wolf would plan for this, however, and always approach a flockfrom downwind.  Detail of a miniature of a wolf, sneaking up on sheep from downwind; from a bestiary, England, c. 1200-c. 1210, Royal MS 12 C. xix , f. 19r Nicole Eddy 
4177	Yes	hyper intéressant 
4178	Yes	[...] make this report in English or in French? Well, here the answer was quite easy; because Lorraine Audric had formerly done a report in French… it was my turn to do so in English. But bilingual [...] 
4179	Yes	I would like to get more information about events related with visual studies and visual discuorse in Paris. 
4180	Yes	It’s so difficult to find some information about on-going visual studies in Eu, especially in Paris. Is it because of the absence of specific institution titled culture visuelle? 
4181	Yes	See: http://culturevisuelle.org/ 
4182	Yes	Merci bcp pour ce compte-rendu très intéressant ! 
4183	Yes	Jolie moisson. On en reparle ce soir, et entre autres de votre “remarque troublante” qui bien sûr m’intéresse? 
4184	Yes	Merci senoras ambassadrices du Lhivcv!! Mention spéciale pour la lucha libre évidemment (le catch, première mythologie de Barthes) qui révèle bien combien images et spectacle ont tout à voir ensemble, du spectacle-image à l’image-spectacle. 
4185	Yes	 My bonus task for the first week of February: see if I can’t figure out how to work with NetworkX: “a Python language software package for the creation, manipulation, and study of the structure, dynamics, and function of complex networks.” I came across it again, after discovering it a while ago, when I was looking [...]
4186	Yes	 At the Berlin 10 Conference, the Key Word Was Confidence, http://t.co/IawWSjO2 Open Access Publishing Fund Pilot [UC Libraries], http://t.co/aWSW3icz Innovative Interfaces Founder Sells Remaining Interest in Company to Private Equity, http://t.co/2ouRjdiw Yet Another Open Access Inquiry [UK Business, Innovation and Skills Committee], http://t.co/ZrLqgfGM Positioning ACM for an Open Access Future, http://t.co/fgVTqwS1 | Digital Scholarship | The post Current News: Twitter Updates for 2/3/2013 appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4187	Yes	Visualization is often considered to consist of three phases: exploration, analysis, and presentation. While the former two topics are covered well in the literature, there has been very little work specifically on presentation. In an upcoming paper, Jock Mackinlay and I argue that presentation, and in particular storytelling and communication of data, are the logical next step for the field, and provide some research directions. The paper is titled Storytelling: The Next Step for Visualization  and was written for  IEEE Computer , in particular the  Special Issue on Cutting-Edge Research in Visualization , to be published in May. This is important context to understand what we were trying to achieve and why the paper’s style is a bit unusual. That entire special issue is likely to be very interesting. The guest editors, Min Chen and Theresa-Marie Rhyne, asked people in the field to write about what they envision visualization research to do 5, 10, or even 15 years in the future. While I don’t know what other papers will be in the issue, I’ve heard rumors that there were some high-profile submissions. And the topic clearly lends itself to some interesting thought experiments. Our paper first explores the history of presentation and  storytelling with visualization, though there really isn’t much there. Only a handful of papers can really count as presentation, so we had to reach back a bit and include some historical perspective that goes beyond the visualization literature. We then talk about our particular idea of how we think storytelling should be approached, which is strongly influenced by journalism. It is not limited to the typical passive consumer though, so we outline some scenarios in which presentation and storytelling could be used. We illustrate these points with three case studies: Minard, Gapminder, and a story from the New York Times . The final section then provides some ideas about further steps and research directions. If the formatting looks a bit odd, it is because this is a pre-print, which is still going through its editing phase. IEEE now makes these available very early though, in their rough form. While some of the text is likely going to change (since Computer has a particular style), the meat of the paper will not. Also, the goal of this paper was not a technical contribution or particular depth, but to lay out the general idea and discuss research directions. I hope to have some more in-depth work published later this year. In related news, I was on a panel on storytelling with Alberto Cairo last week at the Computation and Journalism Symposium . Alberto has posted the slides he used during his opening remarks , with a bit of narration of his thoughts and some questions to go with them. I won’t post my slides or thoughts here for the moment, since I talked about some things that are about to become part of a paper submission, but I will say this: there is plenty of interesting work to be done with regards to presentation, communication. explanation, and storytelling with data. Robert Kosara, Jock Mackinlay, Storytelling: The Next Step for Visualization .  Computer (Special Issue on Cutting-Edge Research in Visualization) , May 2013. (to appear) 
4188	Yes	A question often asked about Worldmapper is in regard to our choice of colours for the different regions and countries. On the website we briefly explain that the colours used on the maps group the territories into 12 geographical regions, and allow for an easier visual comparison between the maps than would otherwise be possible. The shading of each territory within a region is consistent throughout all of the maps. ” But there is a little bit more to the colours which tell a story about the unequal fortunes of the world which follow a general pattern along the major regions. The colours of the world’s regions are chosen very consciously, and have a deeper sense behind their distribution. We split the world into twelve contiguous geographical regions of population groups, with every region being roughly symmetrically balanced and having at least a population of one hundred million people. This is how the world’s population is distributed : We then applied a unique colour hue to each of the regions and applied different shadings of the colours to the countries (or territories, as they are, because not all territories that we use are independent countries) within that region. Each territory therefore has a unique colour that stays consistent throughout all worldmapper maps and helps to find your way around in the most distorted maps. The colour hues are also included in the supplementary material (such as the spreadsheets with the underlying data that we provide as a download along each map). The actual choice of which colour hue goes to which of the twelve regions of the world was made by looking at the Human Development Report (we worked with the 2004 version at the time we developed worldmapper, the latest report and further information can be obtained from the UNDP website at http://hdr.undp.org/en/ ). We used the HDR to sort these regions from the poorest to the richtest. We then applied a rainbow colour scale to determine the colour hue for each of the regions, starting with shades of dark red to demarcate the poorest territories, then moving through the rainbow scale to a shade violet for the best-off region which is Japan. Here you can see, how the land area map relates to the colour scale of a rainbow: But even without knowing that background, the colour scheme is a sensible design decision. It helps the map reader to identify individual countries and at the same time not get lost in the overall picture. One just needs to get used to the colours scheme once and is then able to read even the most distorted maps, such as this disturbing picture of executed death penalties : The colour scheme has proven very useful so that I continued using it in the initial launch of the World Population Atlas . It was the first published series of maps based on the new gridded cartogram technique and (while it was also related to the Worldmapper project and therefore the colour choice seemed obvious) the colours helped to relate to our existing mapping approach so that the very unusual new shapes of the gridded cartograms appeared less intimidating to many of the visitors to our website: Gridded cartograms, however, are much more complex than the original Worldmapper cartograms. Using just one colour in these maps makes very little use of its capabilities as a real map projection. This is a gridded population cartogram of the United Kingdom as I created it for the World Population Atlas. It is compared to a population density map to illustrate the differences between a choropleth display population density and a gridded population cartogram: The choropleth map basically wasted its space for the choropleth overlay to display the information it wants to show. The gridded population cartogram in contrast gives equal space to the quantities that are shown in different shades in the reference map: It is an equal-population projection where every person in the UK gets an equal amount of space on the map. The geographical reference is retained at an objective unit, which is the grid. By displaying the grid and its distortion, the individual grid cell (each representing the same ‘real’ space in the physical world), the extent of the distortion helps to read and understand the geographic pattern and to comprehend the reference to the real world. Each grid cells retains its topology, and neigbouring spaces in the real world remain neighbouring spaces in the map. That is why this cartogram can be used like any other map: To draw other things on top of it – such as mountains, valleys and rivers (but also many other things – anything that has a spatial reference in the ‘real’ world that surrounds us). It is a map projection for the human spaces that surround us. Helps to read the world from our perspective – and therefore sometimes is even more powerful when seen without the familiar Worldmapper rainbow: Now show this on a choropleth population density map…cartograms are not the better map, but they can sometimes be much more useful depending on what wants to be shown, just as is the case with any other choice of map projection… Copyright note for the LandScan population data: UT BATTELLE, LLC. Developed under Prime Contract No. DE-AC05-00OR22725 with the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights herein. The maps and images on this page have been created by Benjamin D. Hennig of the SASI Research Group (University of Sheffield) . The material can be used under Creative Commons conditions ( CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 ); please contact me for further details – I also appreciate a notification if you use my maps. High resolution and customized maps are available on request. 
4189	Yes	A week or so ago I began to follow Mark Sample’s tweets carefully as his tweeted what at first sounded like a nightmare at Dulles when he went to catch a flight. As he tweeted through the days it became more surreal. It seemed he was sequestered and being interrogated. He reported shots and deaths. It was hard to tell what was going on and then it was all over with a link to a YouTube video of him whispering into the phone . Then when you clicked on @samplereality you got “Internal Server Error” and if you tried to find his page you gott a “Sorry, that page doesn’t exist!” Someone had deleted his account. Fortunately there was an off-site archive of his tweets that he had  backed up here . And then there was an entry on ProfHacker by Sample on how to Keep Your Official Twitter Archive Fresh  which the editors introduced with, this is a draft that Mark Sample uploaded to Profhacker last week. We have been unable to contact Mark for the final revisions, so we are posting it as-is. Our apologies for any errors. It seemed more and more likely that the dramatic events in Dulles were a work of net fiction or an alternate reality game, something Mark is interested in and claimed to be working on for 2013 in his blog entry From Fish to Print: My 2012 in Review . I was also suspicious that none of his colleagues at George Mason seemed to be that worked up about his experience. And that’s the fun of this sort of alternate reality fiction. You don’t really know if you’re being taken or not and so you start poking around. Like many I was initially sympathetic (who hasn’t been inconvenienced by delays) and then worried. Eventually I decided the stream of posts were a work of fiction, but of course I’m still not sure. When alternate reality fiction is done well you never know whether  This Is Not A Game . I still don’t, but I’ll risk a guess and congratulate Mark … Bravo!     
4190	Yes	This month, we’re featuring posts on e-lit journals that have published issues recently. Up first: Hyperrhiz amp; bleuOrange The latest issues Hyperrhiz: New Media Cultures  and bleuOrange are now online, featuring works and criticism on digitally born literature.  Both are exemplary, long-running journals of contemporary art. Hyperrhiz The new issue features essays by Piotr Célinski, David Gruber and David M. Rieder, and Hazel Smith.  The artists in the gallery include The Hanseatic Semiotic Traders League; David Ciccoricco and Jill DelSordi;  David Gruber and David M. Rieder; and Hazel Smith, Joanna Still, and Roger Dean. There is also a review by  Philippe Bootz and Sandy Baldwin. The Hanseatic Semiotic Traders League (or Fiskekaker) is the name for the collaboration of Brendan Howell, Amrita Kaur, Mark C. Marino, Eduardo Navas, Margaux Pezier,Scott Rettberg, Morten Sorreime, Martin Swartling, Patricia Tomaszek, Rob Wittig.  Their work, “The Colonization of Memory,” combines a locative narrative and an exquisite corpse (a Locative Corpse) in an instantiation of the procedural art form, exquitie_code. bleuOrange (French) Issue 6 of BleuOrange , features work by Valerie Cordy, Booris Dumesnil-Poulin and Marie-Pier April, Maxime Galand, Myriam Lambert, Sebastien Cliche,  Line Dezainde. bleuOrange  is a project supported by the Laboratoire NT2: New technologies, new and textualities and Figura, the Centre for Research on the text and imagination, both of the University of Quebec in Montreal.  The editor-in-chief is Alice van der Klei.  Consider these venues for your latest works of electronic literature! 
4191	Yes	 elotroalex Around DH in 80 Days It is my pleasure to introduce to you one of our first pilot projects at GO::DH , Around DH in 80 Days! AroundDH hopes to be a fun way to introduce the work of colleagues around the world to those who are just starting out. Everyday for 80 days we will visit a group or projects across the globe. An editorial board will select a total of 80 groups or projects out of master list  created by volunteers like you . Groups in the list will be approached to describe themselves and highlight their work in 200 words or less. We will do our best to bring attention to digital scholarship outside of Canada, Europe, the US and Japan. In that sense, we are departing from a broad and inclusive vision of DH. Besides the audience of new comers, the global scope of the tour should also attract some of the more seasoned DH’ers. The greatest challenge of the editorial board is to balance the geographical margins with the greatest-hits of the northern mainstream. The greatest hope of the project is to paint enough of a broad picture of digital humanities to redefine it in the process. Thus, AroundDH can be read not only as a tour of the globe, but also as a dance around the periphery of DH. The project began as an email experiment. One email was sent daily from my outbox to all the librarians in the Hamp;H division at Columbia with the subject “The DH Daily.” Everyday, our librarians, who are in the middle of a 2-year professional development program to become the consultation arm of our Digital Humanities Center at Columbia, would visit a different DH center or project. Others outside of Columbia heard about the experiment and wanted to be included in the email list. The appeal was the small dosages. Like the librarians, the rise of DH across the land has brought crowds of DH-curious academic professionals and students to our doors asking where do I begin?’ At the same time that the emails were going out, I was slowly but surely becoming part of the conversations around Global Outlook DH. There we were trying to discover as much as we could about the world outside the fields of vision of the member-nations of the ADHO. Eventually these two sets of concerns blend into one, and thus was born the idea for Around DH in 80 days. The project is currently being developed by Ryan Cordell’s  Doing Digital Humanities  graduate class (#s13dh). You are still welcome to contribute to  our global list . After Ryan’s class develops the first stage of the project, the project will be passed around the world for refinement and translation. Around DH indeed! If you or your team would like to volunteer to translate the project once it’s ready, and/or become part of the editorial board that makes the final decisions for inclusion, please  send me a line . Alex Gil - ...in the fields of legology. 
4192	Yes	 read more 
4193	Yes	 Blog:  College Ready Writing I’m spent, folks. I’m feeling a bit overwhelmed right now, and I’m struggling with coming up with the right words to express what I am thinking, not to mention untangle that from what I am feeling (besides exhausted). So, instead, he’s a little piece of creative non-fiction I wrote. Famous People in Airports My Dad collects famous people in airports.  Rather, he collects the memories of seeing famous people in airports.  And he shows them like rare artifacts for my brother and I to admire either genuinely or out of dutiful love.  I often wonder about my Dad’s life before me.  Doing the math, there are 14 years between the time he moved to Montreal as a bachelor and when I was born.  I know there were travels, I know there were late nights drinking to excess at a bar downtown.  What else?  I don’t know.  What of the weekend trip to London where you got sick and they stopped you at customs because they thought you were smuggling drugs?  “No, I went to Vancouver for weekends.  London deserves a longer stay,” you correct me.  Weekends in Vancouver? I’m writing this on a plane, bound for a place not my home and yet home for now. I wonder if this is how you felt: at home and at once homeless.  You left Brandon, and you told me it saved you.  I left home; it saved me.  And so now it seems I keep leaving home.  Each time I get home, the place I longed for, the stability, the familiarity, I get restless.  When can I leave?  When can I get into a car, a bus, a plane and just leave, going back again, and again, and again to places both unfamiliar and familiar, home, and yet…not? “One time I saw Donald Sutherland in an airport, Dorval I think.  He’s an actor, you know.”  I roll my eyes.  Please, Dad, I am not so culturally illiterate that I don’t realize that this man is more than simply Keifer’s dad.  Although, at the time that this sighting was first put on display, his importance was placed mostly on the latter position.  “Yeah, I saw him, and he looked just like he did in MASH.  Except even scruffier, if you can believe that.  Fisherman’s cap, green army jacket, beard.”  There’s no context, no superlatives.  It is presented as one presents what one collects: for you to admire and appreciate as you see fit.  There really is no point to collecting other than the personal gratification that it brings.  Such his stories are like rare coins or stamps or Star Wars memorabilia, or bobble-head dolls or Beenie Babies.  On display, but mostly, primarily for his personal enjoyment. My first trip, I don’t remember.  I had just been born, and my parents when on their honeymoon to Barbados.  Every day at 4 PM sharp, I would start to scream until three hours later when I would stop.  Nothing would appease me.  So my parents went home early.  I was satisfied, and then, after a few days at home, I started up again.  Thus my nature has been ever since.  Get comfortable, start screaming. My Dad takes planes less now, only if he has to.  Long drives are more to his liking. He would pick me up at university whenever he could.  That drive up Highway 10, going at once towards home away from home, seeing the lights of Montreal from the South Shore, just after passing Saint-Jean.  Or back the other way, around the turn, with a mountain on either side of you, down a steep hill where you could no longer pick up a radio signal.  “Are you in a hurry?” he would ask.  Always.  Running away from and towards wherever I was going. I am more and more like my father.  I sound like my Mom, I laugh like my Mom, I cry like my Mom.  I grew up under my mom.  I was like her: open, outgoing, laughing out loud, crying quietly.  My brother was more like my Dad: quieter, shy, at times brooding and impatient.  If only it were that simple. My Dad and I travel.  We share planes and long car rides.  Not always together, but we share the experience of airports, of traffic, of bus stations, of hotels, of the unfamiliar and familiar experiences all at once.  The comfort of the safety video at the beginning of the flight, regardless of destination.  The acceleration of the plane at take-off.  Going somewhere, anywhere.  Homelessness. But there is the downside.  The jet lag.  Not knowing what time it is.  Not knowing where you are when you wake up.  Is this what drove the flying out of you?  You were my age when you did most of your traveling.  Did you wake up in the middle of the night, scared because nothing was familiar?  Did you get on the last flight back home and your stomach turned, even though you were a good flyer?  Did you sometimes forget where home even was, which key opened what door, who even to call once you got to where you were going, calling the wrong person?  Knowing that no matter where you go, for how long you stay, how soon you come back, someone will be left unsatisfied, usually yourself?  I imagine that I share these feelings with you, when you were my age.  I always travel in spurts, to make sure that when the restlessness came, I could keep it at bay with the unpleasant memories of doing too many kilometers in too short a period of time.  But it’s always there, and when I can find an excuse to travel, I do.  Car trips.  Plane trips followed by car trips, followed by more planes and buses.  A train here or there.  The bus.  Is this how you did it, or where you more sane in your travel plans? And the sights!  A last-minute decision to go see a Salvador Dali exhibit in London.  A Jeep Safari on Isla de la Margarita.  Stanley Park in Vancouver.  Discovering what true beauty is at the National Gallery in Washington. Never enough time, too long to travel, not enough money.  But also the “little” things: Weddings, birthdays, friends, family.  Getting lost in Washington.  Getting yelled at in Vancouver.  Figuring out the Underground.  Sunsets.  Boys on trips.  How many memories do you have, the secret ones that you collect, that are only for you and no one else?  The secret affairs abroad; I have a couple of those as well.  My Dad was always trying to get us to collect things.  Started with the classics, of course: stamps and coins.  Then, for my brother, it was model cars they could build together.  He wanted to be able to give us something that we could share with him, something that would always remind us of him.  We all seek immortality in our ways.  He tried to get me to collect music boxes; the effort ended at three.  He placed the importance on the tangible, which would allow him to live on in us.  But what of this need in me to travel, my ability to make a home anywhere and nowhere, the love of the road and long car trips, of airports and sky and seemingly perpetual motion?  I can’t sit still, I want to go, I get there, I want to go home.  I get home (wherever that is), and I want to leave again.  Is it from you that I get this urge to simply go away when things get bad, to disappear and be anonymous in a far away and strange place, that is at once a comfort?  Is it from you?  I like to think it is, and it lives on in me. Recently, I was browsing through the bookstore at Dorval, now Trudeau, airport after my flight back to Edmonton had been delayed an hour.  I was exhausted: once again, too many hours on the road, in the air, in a month.  I was on my way to a still-unfamiliar home.  A new life was starting, but the old one always lingers.  I just wanted, for one moment, to stay in one place.  I was not paying attention, frustrated by the delay, tired and annoyed at my own inability to choose a worthy piece of Can Lit.  I turned a corner and literally ran into Matthew Modine.  The cashiers confirmed the sighting, falling all over themselves at the experience.  I smile.  My collecting had begun.  When I related the story to my Dad, I suffixed the story with: “He’s an actor, you know.” 
4194	Yes	Merci beaucoup pour ces considérations profondes sur la place de la photographie dans la modernité. Si l’on suit cette idée, la photographie pourrait donc être rangée, dans les termes de Bruno Latour, parmi les objets “hybrides” qui prennent forme dans l’espace qui est venu à séparer, chez les modernes, la nature et la culture, l’humain et le non-humain. J’espère vivement que vous aller donner une suite à cette lecture anthropologique très intéressante… 
4195	Yes	Merci beaucoup à vous. C’est vrai que Bruno Latour n’est pas très loin de ceci. Même si, me semble-t-il, l’hybride photographique ne fait pas l’objet d’un processus de “purification”, mais manifeste au contraire constamment – et c’est peut-être là sa particularité – son hybridité. C’est en tout cas une piste très intéressante. 
4196	Yes	Passionnante proposition d’approche de la photographie. Merci pour ce texte. 
4197	Yes	formidable ! merci 
4198	Yes	 NDP Leader Thomas Mulcair made a good suggestion last week.  After the Prime Minister publicly outlined the marching orders for his ministers – which did not address recent tensions with First Nations but did emphasize the allocation of funds and resources towards a handful of historical celebrations – Mulcair took him to task. Picking up perhaps on the contradiction of funding historical celebrations while systematically gutting Library and Archives Canada and Parks Canada (two key institutions that preserve Canada’s documentary and material heritage), Mulcair gilled the Prime Minister on his political use of the past. Rather than throwing the baby out with the bath water, however, Mulcair suggests that perhaps the Prime Minister expand his commemorative agenda. Why not celebrate the 250th anniversary of the 1763 Royal Proclamation this year? I agree with Mulcair. The Harper government should embrace the Royal Proclamation. Not only is it a foundational – one might even say constitutional – document in Canada’s legal history, it also provides the Prime Minister with an opportunity to demonstrate his apparent concern for First Nations’ priorities .  The Royal Proclamation has all the trappings of a Harperesque vision of the past . It draws together the military, monarchy and a firm spirit of law and order. I don’t think Mulcair went far enough in his indictment, however. It’s not just Stephen Harper (and his cabinet) ignoring the Proclamation. It’s all of us. I fear that without more concerted effort, the idea of commemorating the Royal Proclamation will merely serve as a political foil used to prod and criticize the Prime Minister and his allies without taking the time to more deeply consider the meaning and implications of this important document. If ever there was a good time to engage in this re-evaluation, #IdleNoMore and the events of the past two months have laid a useful context on which this commemoration can occur.  Here, we – this includes you and I as well as the Government of Canada – have an opportunity to allocate resources towards better understanding this important chapter of our past. George III issued the Royal Proclamation on October 7 1763. It did three things.  First, it established the boundaries and governance structures for four newly acquired colonies: Quebec, East and West Florida and Grenada. It also annexed Ile Saint Jean (Prince Edward Island) and Cape Breton to Nova Scotia. Second, it established grants in land for veterans of the Seven Years’ War. Finally, it extended the crown’s claim to indigenous territory unoccupied and previously unclaimed by the British crown or its subjects. In doing so, the Proclamation required that the crown negotiate with indigenous people before any British subject colonize or otherwise interfere with the people living beyond colonial borders. The crown, after all, was concerned with “the great Frauds and Abuses [that] have been committed in purchasing Lands of the Indians.” Anyone living on land not properly ceded to the crown was to be removed. In issuing the Proclamation, the British wished “that the Indians may be convinced of Our Justice, and determined Resolution to remove all reasonable Cause of Discontent.” ( Click here for the full text ) It is not surprising that the Conservatives have not embraced the Royal Proclamation. As the rest of the eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth centuries turned out, neither government nor colonist fully adhered to the law. The clearest examples are in the Maritimes, Quebec and Ontario where settlement and resource exploitation often preceded treaty making and imperial/indigenous negotiation over territory, but the dismal follow-through on the clauses in many of the Numbered Treaties are also illustrative. Many of the books Andrew Watson and I listed in January to contextualize #IdleNoMore provide tangible examples (check out the comments section which adds a considerable number of excellent resources). Of these, chapter three of J.R. Miller’s Compact, Contract and Covenant is perhaps the quickest study of the Proclamation and its impact. Exploring the legal ramifications of the Proclamation will likely require that the Prime Minister take First Nations concerns more seriously, resulting in significant changes to our country’s constitution. So, like the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, whose 30th anniversary was similarly ignored last year, the Royal Proclamation will likely end up in the dustbin of Conservative history. It is surprising, however, that the issue hasn’t had more resonance in the public and among historians. In 2007 and 2008, my inbox was full of exciting conferences and academic projects focused on the Seven Years’ War and the Conquest of Quebec. The following year, 2009, produced a number of new insights into these mid-eighteenth-century events and their memory. This is perhaps best evidenced through John Reid and Phil Buckner’s recently published two volume Revisiting  1759 and Remembering 1759 . Aside from Stephen Conway’s chapter in the first volume, however, the Royal Proclamation is scantly mentioned in either tome. Here I should come clean. My own chapter in the first volume – one of the few that directly addresses the impact of the conquest on indigenous people – spends little time addressing the Proclamation. A focus on the Proclamation wasn’t the explicit purpose of either book.  The point is, however, that in our fervour to remember the Conquest of Quebec – the history of Canada’s two ‘founding’ nations – we have not yet adequately revisited and addressed the Royal Proclamation and the legacy of this document for Canada’s relationship with North American indigenous peoples. In some ways our emphasis on the Conquest still reflects a historiographical context that only considers Canada’s French and British heritage. Of course, we don’t necessarily need an anniversary to generate good scholarship on a particular historiographical issue. Alain Beaulieu , John Borrows , Colin Calloway , Denys Delage , Jean-Pierre Sawaya and Brian Slattery have all made important contributions over the past decade that have helped to shape our perspective on this important document. There is undoubtedly more to come in the future from these scholars and others. But what anniversaries and commemorative events do well is provide the opportunity for debate and discussion. In the midst of #IdleNoMore and a resurgence of public awareness of indigenous activism and issues, this is an opportune moment for us to begin asking important questions about how we perceive Canada’s historical relationship with indigenous peoples. On an event-by-event and place-by-place basis, indigenous people now have greater prominence in North American history. Though it has not yet manifest itself in survey textbooks in Canada, over the past twenty years historians have radically re-evaluated the period before 1800, demonstrating the continued presence, power and sovereignty of many indigenous societies. Commemorating the Royal Proclamation provides us with an opportunity to more broadly integrate these perspectives into our understanding of Canada’s past. With October still eight months away, there’s still time to commemorate and learn about the 1763 Royal Proclamation during its 250th anniversary. Thomas Peace is a SSHRC Postdoctoral fellow in Native American Studies at Dartmouth College. 
4199	Yes	I’m always interested to hear about how different scholarly communities are changing their communications practices. Things like PLOS One , and projects like PressForward are putting forward interesting and new models for when and where review happens and how we establish credibility and mark for quality. At the recent ScienceOnline conference I had the pleasure of chatting a bit with David Zureick-Brown , a mathematician and one of the founders of MathOverflow . Given how forward thinking much of the math community has been in this scholarly communication space I was thrilled to have a chance to pick his brain about similarities and differences between fields. High Rates of Rejection in Math Journals: It works different there I was initially taken back by something David said.  It was something like “In my field, if you aren’t getting at least a 50% rejection rate on papers you submit to journals you aren’t aiming high enough.” The idea being, that you should try to get your work into more prestigious journals, and many of these journals have two-year backlogs. In one situation, a paper was rejected that had largely positive reviews because it wasn’t important/exciting enough. This is exactly the thing that projects like PLOSone are set up to get around. To try and stop evaluating papers for quality and start doing a minimal evaluation of them as passing a minimum bar. Publication happens before Publication Initially I thought this sounds terrible! You submit your papers, wait for rejections, and then shift down a bit. Wouldn’t this hold up getting your work out there? But then I remembered that Math is different. At this point there is an expectation that you put all your work up on arXiv as soon as they are coherent enough to be called papers. So this review process wasn’t holding up the publication process. As soon as work is done it’s published. People start reading it on arXiv. When I realized this I suggested “Oh, so publication in a journal is actually really just like a mark of quality, it’s like a merit badge.”  Now, it’s a really important merit badge in the field, as the quality of the journals you are published in is a key factor for tenure and promotion. So getting a piece published in a particularly prestigious journal is effectively a seal of quality/approval that a given work matters and is significant for the field. Small Pieces Loosely Kludged This kluged together system seems like a great outcome. I can’t imagine anyone set out to make this system work this way. Anything can get published on arXiv, at which point anyone can see the work, cite the work, and reference it. The journals are now really just serving as amplifiers. The peer review of this work is actually post publication peer review. In this system it sort of doesn’t matter if journals want to become open access. If they let you put up pre-prints you’re good to go. The content of the journals is already published and open access. It only costs folks money to see the papers if they want to see the fancy PDFs. It’s largely about when you call it a publication So post publication peer review and pre-publication review are actually much more dependent on what we call the publication. Humanities and Social Science folks can just start to put all their stuff up in places like Academia.edu , or up on SSRN before submitting it. In many social sciences at this point this is a standard practice.  While I’m a big fan of institutional repositories, I find the situations where the field specific platforms have emerged a bit more exciting. In these cases, the expectations and behaviors of scholars have shifted. It’s the norm to expect that you can see your colleagues work as quickly as it’s come together online in these spaces. So why doesn’t this happen in History and the Humanities? The fact that arXiv , SSRN and sites like RePEc and a few other disciplinary networks emerged for sharing scholarship in draft form and that nothing like them has taken off in the humanities is an indictment of the humanities. How come Mathematicians, Astronomers, Economists and a range of other fields could just set up places to share their work and humanists haven’t? As you can see from the Math situation, if a scholarly community just shifts to sharing pre-prints and everybody does it then it basically doesn’t matter what publishers want to do in terms of open access. This is to say that scholars have no one but themselves and their peers to point to if they don’t like how scholarly communication works. As the math case shows, we can patch our scholarly communication system one kludge at a time and end up with a system that embraces broad open access and rapid dissemination and retains merit badges for quality.   
4200	Yes	The Justice Department has filed a brief in the Cambridge University Press et al. v. Patton et al. case by for a 21-day extension in which to quot;to file any amicus brief in support of appellants or in support of neither party.quot; Here#39;s an excerpt from quot; Obama Administration Considers Joining Publishers in Fight to Stamp out Fair Use at Universities quot;: In digging into this, we#39;ve heard from a few sources that it#39;s actually the US Copyright Office that has asked the DOJ to weigh in on the side of the publishers and against the interests of public universities and students. Read more about it at quot; Publishers and Library Groups Spar in Appeal to Ruling on Electronic Course Reserves ,quot; quot; Unwelcome Intervention? ,quot; and quot; U.S. Attorneys May Weigh in On GSU E-Reserves Case .quot; | Google Books Bibliography (XHTML website; over 320 entries) | Digital Scholarship | The post Surprise Brief by Justice Department in Georgia State University E-Reserves Case appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4201	Yes	The University of California Curation Center is recruiting a Development and Production Administrator. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : Reporting to a UC3 associate director, the incumbent will be responsible for the high-availability architectural design, operational support, and application-level administration of this infrastructure and will liaise with the UC3 Service Managers and Technical Leads for application monitoring and machine deployment, and the central CDL Infrastructure and Application Services (IAS) group for package administration and backup, disaster recovery, and business continuity planning, and will represent UC3 during weekly IAS/ITS planning and review meetings. | Digital Scholarship | The post Development and Production Administrator at University of California Curation Center appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4202	Yes	David R. Hansen, Gwen Hinze, and Jennifer Urban have self-archived quot; Orphan Works and the Search for Rightsholders: Who Participates in a #39;Diligent Search#39; under Present and Proposed Regimes? quot; in SSRN. Here#39;s an excerpt: Regardless of the specific formulation, the search for rightsholders (or conversely, the confirmation that no rightsholder can be located) is an integral component of almost every orphan works proposal. This paper examines in detail the core schemes for identifying rightsholders among the leading orphan works regimes and proposals. Although these schemes differ across many variables, three factors predominate: (1) who is expected to participate in the search process, (2) the nature and extent of the required search generally; and (3) specifically what types of resources, tools, registries or other information-sharing mechanisms are required or allowed. This paper compares existing proposals#39; approaches with respect to the first factor: who participates in a search? A subsequent paper will focus on the second and third factors. | Digital Scholarship Overview | Digital Scholarship | The post quot;Orphan Works and the Search for Rightsholders: Who Participates in a ‘Diligent Search’ under Present and Proposed Regimes?quot; appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4203	Yes	The American University Library is recruiting a Research Data Librarian. Here#39;s an excerpt from the ad : The Research Data Librarian serves in a leadership role in developing a comprehensive data management program in support of American University Library#39;s research data management enterprise. Reporting to the Director, Research, Teaching and Learning, this newly established research data librarian collaborates with faculty, graduate students, academic units and research centers; and the Office of Information Technology staff to develop a campus-wide data program to assist in managing, describing, preserving and making research data available and accessible to appropriate audiences. The Research Data Librarian participates in the Library#39;s efforts to assist faculty and students to investigate to evaluate and to support researchers#39; data practices, processes, technologies, data management, storage, and retrieval practices including those required by funding agencies. | Digital Scholarship | The post Research Data Librarian at American University Library appeared first on DigitalKoans . 
4204	Yes	Hagley Library prides itself on anticipating the needs of its research community. And just what is the primary need of that community? You guessed it: to make money! Who doesn’t want to make money? Money makes the world go round. … Continue reading → 
4205	Yes	I’ve copied the announcement below from Ernesto Priego (who copied what Alex Gil  sent and added helpful links). This is certain to be not only a great project, but an important project. I’m particularly excited to see how AroundDH emerges as something that “can be read not only as a tour of the globe, but also as a dance around the periphery of DH” and how that dance informs, complicates, stretches, and redefines DH in productive ways. It is my pleasure to introduce to you one of our first pilot projects at  GO::DH , Around DH in 80 Days! [Global list:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AmgLcm5jfVhSdGlPNm1WQ0hRYjFTU1E5QnBDdlZMQWcamp;usp=sharing#gid=0 ] AroundDH hopes to be a fun way to introduce the work of colleagues around the world to those who are just starting out. Everyday for 80 days we will visit a group or projects across the globe. An editorial board will select a total of 80 groups or projects, one for each day. Groups in the list will be approached to describe themselves and highlight their work in 200 words or less. We will do our best to bring attention to digital scholarship outside of Canada, Europe, the US and Japan. In that sense, we are departing from a broad and inclusive vision of DH. Besides the audience of new comers, the global scope of the tour should also attract some of the more seasoned DH’ers. The greatest challenge of the editorial board is to balance the geographical margins with the greatest-hits of the northern mainstream. The greatest hope of the project is to paint enough of a broad picture of digital humanities to redefine it in the process. Thus, AroundDH can be read not only as a tour of the globe, but also as a dance around the periphery of DH. The project began as an email experiment. One email was sent daily from my outbox to all the librarians in the Hamp;H division at Columbia with the subject “The DH Daily.” Everyday, our librarians, who are in the middle of a 2-year professional development program to become the consultation arm of our Digital Humanities Center at Columbia, would visit a different DH center or project. Others outside of Columbia heard about the experiment and wanted to be included in the email list. The appeal was the small dosages. Like the librarians, the rise of DH across the land has brought crowds of DH-curious academic professionals and students to our doors asking where do I begin?’ At the same time that the emails were going out, I was slowly but surely becoming part of the conversations around Global Outlook DH. There we were trying to discover as much as we could about the world outside the fields of vision of the member-nations of the ADHO. Eventually these two sets of concerns blend into one, and thus was born the idea for Around DH in 80 days. The project is currently being developed by Ryan Cordell’s Doing Digital Humanities graduate class (#s13dh). You are still welcome to contribute to our  global list . After Ryan’s class develops the first stage of the project, the project will be passed around the world for refinement. Around DH indeed! 
4206	Yes	 Reblogged from The New Archaeology of the Mediterranean World: This past week, Deb Brown, who co-organized our panel at the Archaeological Institute of America's annual meeting made the talks available on the YouTubes. All the papers were very solid on this panel and it provides a nice overview of the state of the field. I offered a reflection on the paper in their immediate aftermath here  and have more to say on the topic in here… Read more… 212 more words, 5 more videos At the AIA Annual Meeting in Seattle, Deb Brown co-organized a session on managing archaeological data. The talks were recorded, and she has made them publicly available via YouTube. Bill Caraher, one of the speakers, has compiled them nicely within a single blog post. 
4207	Yes	Rocketing toward the end of my LibrarySchool career is exhilarating, but the closer I get to graduation, the more I feel like my list of projects to accomplish is too long to finish. I’m excited to be involved in our student activities, my classes are challenging in all the best ways, and my work outside of the academic milieu is giving me valuable experience, but there’s always a voice saying “You should do more!” Library students are constantly told that we need to get out there, to tackle exciting projects and take on responsibilities that will help us get jobs and make connections. As #libschool hackers, I think we have a greater understanding of the need to make our programs of study suit our interests, and I’ve seen a number of my colleagues do amazing things, at Syracuse and other universities, in order to follow their passions. I can’t picture a situation in which someone was disadvantaged because they took time outside of their graduate commitments to work on a project they really cared about. In some ways, I think library students should consider an extracurricular project or three as part of their coursework, even if it’s not possible to get “official” credit for it. That said, I know I’m preaching to the choir–library students are an active bunch, and tend to have a problem saying no to the dozens of opportunities we have.  I often find myself wondering how much is too much. I haven’t forgotten Zach’s post about running out of time , and even with lots of job-hunting resources out there I know that finding a starter position will be occupying a lot of my attention this semester. On top of maintaining my ongoing projects, a certain part of my attention will be devoted to finding eager first-year students who want to continue them next year. The semester is only a few weeks old, and I’m already feeling my stress level increase. I’ve been going back over the HLS posts on work/life balance and dealing with stress , and it’s nice to have the reminder that I’m not the only one who’s been stressed out in library school. So how do you know when enough is enough? I’m willing to bet the answer changes from person to person, and maybe even from day to day. I know from my own experience that just when I feel like I’m at the absolute limit of my mental bandwidth, a new project will come along that re-energizes me, and I add that one on top of everything else. In other situations, even when “nothing changes” in terms of my workload, there are days when I’m very, very excited to finish my responsibilities with a particular initiative and hand that project off to someone else. I look forward to an active comment thread on this post–I hope we can all share strategies for handling very busy lives. Reflecting on the year-and-a-half that has gone by since I started my program, I realize just how much I’ve accomplished, even while being somewhat selective. I think it’s easy to fall into the trap of thinking that we have to say yes to everything–for me, the competitive job market in libraryland means that I’m constantly on the lookout for ways to distinguish myself, and saying no, even when it’s completely necessary, always seems like a missed opportunity. Still, I’ve come to understand that over-committing to projects will make every aspect of my life suffer. Taking on a bit less work, and doing a stellar job with it, seems better, somehow, than doing a mediocre job with loads of projects. As with everything else in library school, the trick is finding the balance that will keep you sane. Striving to achieve that balance, and learning how to maintain it, is one of the skills I think I’ve learned from my graduate work, even if I can’t tie it to a particular class outcome. Certainly, I can always improve, and I’m sure that once I enter a work environment I’ll be learning how to keep that balance with an entirely different set of opportunities, pressures, and responsibilities. Still, I’m glad to have the chance to practice now. I don’t expect that life will calm down any, and I’ve watched recent graduates get significantly busier, albeit in slightly different ways, once they settle into jobs they love. Library Students: How do you keep up with everything? Is “everything” something one should even try to keep up with? Sound off in the comments! Filed under: Discussions 
4208	Yes	 Reblogged from Archaeological Networks: The Spatial Humanities team in Lancaster is organising a free two-day workshop in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) for postgraduate students and early career researchers. The intensive two-day course does not require any prior knowledge on GIS and will introduce you to its data management, mapping and export functionality. I can definitely recommend attending this workshop, the team in Lancaster is doing some great pioneering work in spatial humanities and will make sure you get excited by GIS too. Read more… 473 more words 
4209	Yes	 If there’s one thing I wish I had ten times more of it’s the courage not to rely on broken systems to make me feel like I’m safe. (Merlin Mann on Back to Work with Dan Benjamin on the 5by5 network.) It’s time to admit it: I have a love-hate relationship with Merlin Mann. I [...]
4210	Yes	Many, many events have come and gone without comment in the last two months on this blog. Significantly, in January I went to both the AHA in New Orleans and to the Digital Humanities Winter Institute (DHWI) at the University of Maryland. On the former, there’s a post brewing particularly about a round table I was responsible for as Chair of the CLAH Teaching Committee. That, and the music and food in NOLA. DHWI was as a very interesting experience. I took a class on large scale text analysis in R taught by UNL’s Matt Jockers . There was tons of code, and a learning curve for me in getting used to R’s data structures and syntax. I’ll admit I struggled a bit with visualizing in my head the various types of matrices that constitute much of R’s data structures. I have more to say about this class too, but in another post. I drove each day to College Park from Baltimore together with Alex Galarza . Alex and I talked a lot sitting in traffic on I-95. At some point during the week we ended up in a discussion on something I’ve been thinking a lot about in the last year or so– frameworks for long form (historical) narrative online. We both share some misgivings about many of the platforms currently in use in Digital History projects, including WordPress, Drupal, Omeka, KORA, etc. I’m not a designer, and I think that I lack a vocabulary to explain exactly what my misgivings are about the current platforms and how they affect the potential for presenting long form historical argument. In the case of the platforms I listed above, in each case the idea of constructing a long form narrative on the platforms always feels like a hack. WordPress is a great platform for writing blog posts. It doesn’t take much, though, for an individual post to get to the tldr level. The UI of a blog sets limits, at least of expectation, on the length one will spend reading an individual piece. That’s not, of course, the condition of an Omeka or Drupal, both of which might be used in a blog-like manner, but which are intended at a more fundamental level as expressions of modeled relationships between entities that exist in their databases. The way that the elementary entities of the various CMSs are conceived affects the organization and delivery of information using that platform. Raf Alvarado gave an excellent talk on this very thing a few years ago at THATCamp Prime. I put up my notes from that session a few years ago, which was the best presentation I’ve ever heard of the connection between the ontology of a CMS and its resulting product. I bring it up here because I think that Raf’s idea about the way platforms (CMSs) model content has direct bearing on my own discomfort with them as current options for long form historical narrative. Let’s take Omeka as an example. In Raf’s presentation he noted that for Omeka, the elementary unit is the ITEM. Items belong to Collections , and have Dublin Core metadata, keywords, and tags associated with them. Combinations of items, organized by membership in collections or linked through metadata, keywords, or tags allow information to be accessed through Exhibits. Raf described this, borrowing a term from Landow’s Hypertext , as “Axial Hypertext,” or a “sequential content model.” On the face of it, it may seem that a sequential content model would be the best for historical presentation, encouraging the reader to go through a sequence curated by the scholar through the construction of exhibits. Reading that sentence, I imagine you imagining a museum, which is appropriate given the genealogy of Omeka. But, it highlights what remains an unspoken divide in historical scholarship– between what is traditionally called “public” vs. academic history. The narrative of a public history exhibit, and that of an Omeka site as well, is intimately tied to Item objects. This isn’t the case in the kind of history I and most of the History professoriate write. Long form narrative is not object oriented, to butcher a phrase associated with philosophy and computer programming. While historical writing is certainly evidentiary, it’s not a sequential presentation of evidential objects. Omeka doesn’t force one to parade objects, but it is predisposed to organizing information in that manner. I’m not trying to pick on Omeka either, because I have problems with all of the major platforms and the models they impose on the information-knowledge complex. They can also all be hacked for the purpose of long form historical narrative. Why does this matter, even? We have epubs for tablet reading. Isn’t that the electronic substitute for the book? It is I guess, but it falls short for me for two reasons. 1. Epubs truly do cede design elements to the platform. 2. Epubs do little to utilize the interactivity made possible by hypertext. They’re an ugly simulacrum of the book. I also don’t like the movement of more and more information to apps, as opposed to on the open web. There isn’t too much I can think of about the epub experience that can’t be replicated on a well designed website that is by intention responsive to screen size and computer type. This discussion cropped up on twitter a couple of weeks ago. Alex storified it . It was started by a query about allowing users to create their own narratives from archival collections. It’s a cool question, and one that is really similar to the idea behind Scalar or Scholars Lab’s plugin Neatline for Omeka. I’m really less interested in existing or new platforms that can be coerced into long form historical narrative, especially those where evidence objects are the central focus of the platform’s “data object.” I’m more interested in general design principles for presenting either wide-ranging or deeply analytical historical work online. Digital History has focused more on the object of evidence, in part because of its roots in public history and in part because really the Web provided for the first time the capacity to share sources ubiquitously. As a result of that orientation, and with exceptions of course, DH has not offered much to historians working in a more academic mode. And that’s a shame. And that’s a shame that has affected the perception of DH in the traditional academy. If you doubt that, read the Introduction to Allan Megill’s *Historical Knowledge, Historical Error , which is essentially a scathing review of Valley of the Shadow . The problem, if it is one, is the extent to which Digital History has turned it’s practitioners into curators or archivists to the neglect of long-form narrative and analysis. It’s my contention that part of that is platform driven. I’d like to call, instead, for an html/css/js framework for historical narrative. The success of a css framework like Twitter’s bootstrap is in part its platform independence. There has been a backlash against bootstrap, in part because of its success. And its success is rooted in providing a set of icons, css layouts, javascript ui that makes it easy for people without design chops to prototype a site quickly. I don’t, though, find bootstrap to be particularly readable for the kinds of sustained interaction historians are looking for. We’re not talking about web applications here, as much as a newly imagined book. What would a framework for historical narrative include? A minimalist interface. Good typography that conveys the seriousness and temporality of the narrative. With today’s screen resolutions, I think we can go with serif fonts and large type. We’re not selling SAAS or any commodity, so why take our typographic cues from that world? Navigation. Finding one’s place, and finding it again is important for scholarly reading. Together with navigation would be, I’d say, the ability to cite by paragraph. And, to be honest, I’m neither a fan of scrolling or pagination. But maybe that’s just me. Javascript popups for footnotes/endnotes, and maybe for evidence objects as well. One of the things that hypertext has done to sustained reading is present a huge array of interesting and distracting linked elements. But, every time I leave a page to look at something, finding my way back and refocusing can be difficult. Better embedding would help this. I’d really like some means to visualize embedded metadata/rdfa/microdata as well. What else? What else would you want to see in such a framework? The upside of such a framework is it could be used with any platform, or by itself with book-length works written in Markdown. This isn’t exactly the direction the conversation on twitter was taking, but as Jeremy Boggs tweeted in the storified conversation: @ parezcoydigo @ galarzaalex @ anneperez @ tjowens @ wragge @ miriamkp we’ve only scratched the surface of what we can do with good ol HTML amp; CSS — Jeremy Boggs (@clioweb) January 23, 2013 With the ease of authoring with Markdown, I think he’s exactly right that there’s still much to explore with just HTML and CSS. Filed under: Digital History Tagged: css , historical narrative , html , publishing , twitter bootstrap 
4211	Yes	 By way of addressing what we see as a gap in the edited collection that Rachel Bowser and I announced last year , we are soliciting abstracts for essays that consider in one way or another representations of the city in steampunk. The term “city” should be understood widely to signify large and small urban spaces and need not be limited to a particular geography or time period. As texts, essays could consider one or more of the following: literature (including YA lit), film, graphic novels, anime, as well as fandom and performance. The essay will be part of an edited collection exploring steampunk in its literary, filmic, material and fan culture instantiations. The editors have met with multiple university presses who have expressed enthusiastic interest. Completed essays will be expected in early summer 2013. Possible subjects could include the following: The role of crowds in steampunk Urban geographies in steampunk Steampunk and technologies of the city The dirty spaces of steampunk City as mechanization Steampunk and bureaucracy The difference between the cities and the countryside in steampunk Email 250 word abstracts to Brian Croxall and Rachel Bowser, b [dot] croxall [at] gmail [dot] com and rachel [dot] bowser [at] gmail [dot] com , by February 15, 2013. 
4212	Yes	 Today, we’re excited to begin accepting applications for the  2013 Knight Arts Challenge Miami.  Each year, we’re in awe of what South Florida comes up with - innovative ideas, truly Miami ideas, ideas to engage our neighborhoods in the arts. Because of the quality of your submissions, we recently decided to extend the contest for  three more years, through 2015. Applying, though, continues to be as easy as ever. In this first stage, we need just a 150-word description of your project. We have been inspired too by the geographic reach of our recent winners, who are helping to weave culture into neighborhoods stretching from Delray Beach to Opa-locka and Hialeah. So this year, we’ve decided to host small Q amp; A sessions in four neighborhoods: South Dade, North Central Dade, Hollywood and Downtown Miami. Knight Foundation staff will be there to answer questions. Dates and times  for these community roundtables are below. Sign up for our eblasts and follow us  @knightarts  to find out more.   
4213	Yes	 In a recent re-running of the Milgram experiment, a German researcher replaced the human subjects on the other side of the switch with a robot and discovered that humans assigned to switch the robot off have qualms about doing so when the robot, in a sense, pleads for its life. The experiment follows another staged [...]
4214	Yes	 It’s interesting to see a complete portrait of higher education spending by state over the past five years. It’s no real surprise that Louisiana is in the top three … for slashing spending on higher education. The graph tells the tale: There is a concomitant graph of those states that actually increased funding: The increases [...]
4215	Yes	 The PressForward Project amp; Scholarly Communication on the Open Web , a project briefing presented at CNI’s fall 2012 membership meeting by Dan Cohen and Joan Fragaszy Troyano from the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History amp; New Media at George Mason University, is now available on CNI’s two video channels: YouTube : Vimeo : http://vimeo.com/58456934 A healthy ecosystem for scholarly communication requires a continuum from independently distributed work to post-publication peer review. With funding from the Sloan Foundation, the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media at George Mason University created the PressForward project to explore and produce the best means for collecting, screening, and drawing attention to the vast expanse of scholarship that is currently decentralized across the web or does not fit into traditional genres such as the journal article or the monograph. This video provides an overview of current efforts to distribute and evaluate scholarly work available on the open web, and an explanation of the experimental methods behind PressForward’s Digital Humanities Now and Journal of Digital Humanities . It also includes a preview of the open source adaptations to WordPress software that PressForward is developing to enable scholarly communities to easily aggregate, select, and credit work published on the open web. Previously-released video from CNI’s fall 2012 meeting: - What Is College For? The Future of Higher Education (Hunter R. Rawlings III, Association of American Universities) http://youtu.be/zDLuCjCglDg - MOOCs, Mobility, and Changing Scholarly Practice: CNI’s Perspective on 2012 and 2013 (Cliff Lynch, CNI) http://youtu.be/Fvys5VZrjsI - Massive Open Online Courses as Drivers for Change (Lynne O’Brien, Duke U.) http://youtu.be/UbK0i4mhpWU Look for more announcements soon on videos of other sessions from the fall 2012 CNI meeting. To see all videos available from CNI, visit CNI’s video channels on YouTube ( http://www.youtube.com/cnivideo ) and Vimeo ( http://vimeo.com/channels/cni ). 
4216	Yes	 Figure 1: Otter Trail, South Africa Early paleoanthropologists worked in isolated groups with an archaeological or medical background. Fossil sites were usually located accidentally by mining companies or geologists. Since these early stages, the field of paleoanthropology has expanded to include many disciplines including biology, botany, ecology, functional morphology, and even genetics. Members of each of these fields now work together, employing interdisciplinary methods to reconstruct the past. Anemone et al. (2011) breaks the history of African fieldwork in paleoanthropology into three stages: the single-investigator, the interdisciplinary approach, and the return to the laboratory. Each stage led to the next, starting from the single-investigator, such as Broom, Dart, and the early work of the Leakey’s. The Leakey’s paved the way for the second stage: the interdisciplinary approach. F. Clark Howell, took the Leakey’s approach one step further by bringing together scientists from a variety of disciplines including geology, botany, and paleontology. Anemone et al. define the last stage as a progression beyond collaboration and a return to the laboratory with the advances in technology. Instead of plaster casts, technology allows for 3-D reconstructions, imaging, and scanning. In the field, fossil sites are no longer identified through accidental discovery or haphazard searching. Instead, remote sensing and geographic information systems (GIS) are being used to identify potential sites. Figure 2: Dr. Snow’s original cholera map which identified the Broad Street pump as the source of the epidemic. From the beginnings of GIS with mapping of a cholera epidemic, to more recently the hunt for Osama bin Laden, this science has a myriad of applications. As GIS increases in popularity, the science behind the software evolves as well. Applications of GIS include analyzing, measuring, storing and characterizing spatial data. A GIS can go beyond the raw data by manipulating the data points to interpolate between points, resample to decrease redundancy, and project or transform between raster and vector data sets. Additionally, new layers can be calculated through surface analysis. Water flow, slope, aspect, and viewsheds are all layers that can be calculated from the raw data. Moreover, raster and vector layers can be combined with a triangular irregular network (TIN) to create 3-dimensional images of surfaces. Shadowing can be added via the hillshade tool to highlight different features of the surface. Utilizing map algebra, areas that have a specific list of features can be identified. Anemone et al. describe methods in which GIS can be utilized to identify areas where fossilized remains are likely. Geological maps and lithological maps provide valuable information on the features and types of rocks present in specific areas. Further, by combining these data with remote sensing data, patterns can be identified. By ground-truthing areas with likely fossil sites, these patterns can be developed into predictive models to locate new fossil sites.  Anemone et al. applied principal components analysis to their remote sensing data and derived false color images from the eigenvectors, but they did not discuss what the results would indicate. Anemone et al. applied these techniques to their areas of research in the Great Divide Basin of Wyoming. They utilized Landsat 7 ETM+ data with unsupervised classification to identify statistical clusters of land cover. Then a bedrock geology map and known fossil sites were added. Next, they interpolated the topography of the surface at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary by interpolating between 69 points where the boundary is preserved and exposed. Similarly, the surface topography of the Late Cretaceous period was evaluated. Using the differences between these three topographic maps, Anemone et al. were able to evaluate the total amount of uplift between the erosional topography of the Eocene to present day. The elevation estimates derived from the GIS model were consistent with other estimates and to ground-truthing in the area. Surprisingly, these techniques have already been applied to the search for fossil hominins with success. Starting in 1988, Bernard Asfaw and Tim White, along with some NASA scientists utilized these techniques to investigate the previously unexplored areas of the Ethiopian Rift and Afar Depression. The Fejej site, excavated by John Fleagle and his crew, was one result of this analysis. Fleagle found vertebrates from the middle Miocene, Pliocene mammals, and Australopithecus afarensis dental remains dated to 3.7 million years ago. Kesem-Kebena was also located utilizing these techniques, and the previously unexplored site provided a wealth of well-preserved fossils and archaeological evidence including Acheulean bifaces. Despite the success of this project, few others have utilized this technology to identify fossil hominin sites. While paleoanthropology has been hesitant to adopt GIS techniques, paleontologists have utilized these resources to not only locate possible vertebrate sites, but also identify tracks such as the dinosaur tracksites at Red Gulch in Wyoming. The tracksites were mapped by integrating close-range and aerial photography, digital terrain models from satellite imagery, and subsurface geophysical imaging techniques. Hominin fossil sites such as the famous Laetoli and Langebaan Lagoon sites could also be mapped with these techniques. GIS techniques can also be applied at a micro level to the field of functional morphology began utilizing GIS to analyze the functionality of teeth by differentiating between species based on diet. Extant species are first classified by patterns of wear, and then the patterns are extrapolated to extinct species using GIS. Interestingly, dental topographic analysis has identified patterns between diet, wear, and dental topography. In this article Anemone et al. usefully identified several applications for GIS in the field of anthropology. They also recognized that the tools provided by a GIS are underutilized by the discipline. As remote sensing increases in popularity, the use of GIS will likely also increase as it is one of the most powerful methods to analyze spatial data. [Carrie A. Healy] —————– Anemone RL, Conroy GC, Emerson CW. 2011. GIS and paleoanthropology: Incorporating new approaches from the geospatial sciences in the analysis of primate and human evolution. Yearbook of Physical Anthropology 54:19-46. Figure 1: Courtesy of Wikipedia Commons; file is from public domain. http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Otter_Trail05.jpg Figure 2: Courtesy of Wikipedia Commons; file is from public domain. http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Snow-cholera-map.jpg 
4217	Yes	 As the managing editor at a big city newspaper, I learned about journalism psychology. I could call reporters in the middle of the night, tell them something was on fire and no matter how senior they were, they would drop everything and go. A little cursing, maybe, but no argument. News happens. That’s just the way it is. You deal with it. Picture that same veteran reporter coming in after the fire. If I told him I needed him to give up his desk and sit on the other side of the newsroom to write the story, there would be hell to pay. “This is MY spot,” he would growl. A lot of cursing, maybe. That’s journalism psychology. It is fine for news to change every single second. It is not fine to change the way we do the news. News changes, craft doesn’t. Deadlines can do this to people. Look at hospital emergency rooms or military combat units. Stick to the basics, or things turn ugly. In newspapers in particular, being a workplace fundamentalist worked. A notebook, a pencil, a manual typewriter. That’s all a reporter needed in 1870. That’s all we needed in 1970. Change came in the form of electric typewriters, mainframes, dummy terminals, personal computers, smart phones. We had to learn new ways to put the story onto the news assembly line. But that was nothing. Now, important new tools are coming monthly. This has made some of the older folks a little crazy. They rail against “fads” and “gizmos.” Most of us don’t have that luxury. So  American Press Institute ,  Poynter Institute  and  Knight Foundation  have launched a series of tutorial webinars to help media people learn to use new tools as fast as they’re coming out.  DocumentCloud  was the first:  the tutorial  showed how to set up an account and immediately start using the tool. Hundreds of attendees logged in. They learned how the tool tames simple documents from any journalistic beat. They learned advanced uses, like the USA Today quot; Ghost Factories quot; investigation showing toxic wastes at abandoned factories across America. The  next tutorial  is on the AP’s cool document mining tool,  Overview . I asked Knight’s  Michael Maness  and the  Journalism and Media Innovation team  what tools journalists should be learning. In time, the tool tutorials will get to all of them. Here’s Maness#39; list: DocumentCloud : Six hundred newsrooms use it to manage, annotate and publish documents. It lets reporters share information across newsrooms, which, if you have thousands of Sarah Palin emails to go through, is really useful. 
4218	Yes	Rest in peace, Rubén Bonifaz Nuño (1923-2013).I have attempted an English translation of poem number 42 from "Los demonios y los días" (1956). The original Spanish below.
4219	Yes	The Hill Museum amp; Manuscript Library ( HMML ) announces grants available for cataloging work in its eastern Christian collections in Arabic/Garšūnī, Armenian, Old Church Slavonic, and Syriac. These grants are funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Many of these collections are greatly understudied and catalogers thus have prime opportunities for new and further research, as well as the satisfaction of making a contribution to our knowledge of the literature and of manuscript traditions. The grants support full-time cataloging work for periods of one to six months, and are renewable. The work may be done anywhere; residence at HMML is not expected. Catalogers will be expected to prepare text-level records for, ideally, 75 manuscripts per month (with these numbers adjusted for genres with multiple texts per manuscript, such as hagiography and homilies). A sample record may be viewed here . A brief report summarizing completed work (numbers, notable finds, etc.) will be sent twice a month to HMML’s lead cataloger of eastern Christian manuscripts, Adam McCollum. Completed records will be submitted on a monthly basis. The grants offer a stipend of $2500/month, with the added benefit of copies of two digitized manuscripts from HMML’s collections each month at no cost, which may be used for personal research. Those who wish to apply for a cataloging grant may send their CV and a cover letter to Adam McCollum (amccollum@csbsju.edu), to whom also any informal enquiries may be sent. APIB 27, p. 19 CFMM 420, p. 15 
4220	Yes	 Inspired by some fearless leaders in our community, this is my Access Copyright story. This past week, a very interesting series of events unfolded with Access Copyright, or maybe better said, what unfolded was a lesson in how not to engage in open dialogue. I will not be speaking to the text of the the resolutions mentioned below, just the events surrounding them. Last week was the annual Ontario Library Association Super Conference . During Super Conference, each OLA Division has their Annual General Meeting. Among other things, AGMs provide opportunities for resolutions to be put forward by the membership. At this particular AGM, we had two resolutions put forward: 1) A Memorial Resolution Honouring Aaron Swartz (Thanks ALA/LITA!) and 2) OLITA Resolution on Opposition to Access Copyright License Agreements . Standard procedures were followed, the resolutions were moved and seconded, and sent out to the membership in advance. This past Monday (2013-01-08) something happened. I received an email from the Robert Gilbert, New Media and Communication Services, at Access Copyright. This is what they had to say. I will explain why I am making this letter public later. I addressed the incorrect information in the letter in a reply to the sender, and cc'd recipients: Dear Mr. Gilbert, I'd like to clear up some confusion with the resolution. The posted resolution[1] which I assume you have seen or been directed to is a proposed resolution for the Ontario Library and Information Technology Association's (OLITA) Annual General Meeting[2]. It was sent out in advance to membership. The resolution has been moved and seconded, and will be put before the membership at the meeting for a vote. Prior to the vote, an opportunity will be provided to speak to the motion, ask questions, and propose amendments. If you are or your colleagues are OLITA members, you are more than welcome to participate. cheers! -nruest [1] http://www.accessola2.com/olita/insideolita/wordpress/?p=58235 [2] http://www.accessola2.com/olita/insideolita/wordpress/?p=58053 A day went by, and other than I an out of office reply, I didn't hear anything in response. I figured the we were done. Nope. On Wednesday evening (2013-01-30), I received and email from the Executive Director of Access Copyright. I will not publish the entire email, but I was asked to delay the motion, "We don't see how this can properly take place at your AGM. Would you consider delaying the motion until we have the opportunity to meet and begin a dialogue?" I responded: Hi XXXXXXX, I due[sic] hope you understand the weight and merit of what you are asking. You are asking that I forgo a democratic process. This is a resolution that was put forward by a member of our association, and will be discussed as [sic] voted on at our AGM. As I stated previously, if you or any of your colleagues are OLITA members, you are more then welcome to come and part take in this democratic process. You will be provided every opportunity to speak to the resolution on the table. Other than that, I will in no way interfere this process as you have suggested. Regards, -nruest I had hoped this was the end of the exchange. Nope. The OLITA AGM was Friday evening (2013-02-01). Access Copyright was present at the conference as they had a booth in the exhibitors' hall. During the day, a colleague of mine showed me the letter I mentioned earlier. Somewhat (well really a lot) flabbergasted, I asked where and how they got a copy of that assuming the only people to see the aforementioned letter were those that sent it, a those that received it. Nope . Access Copyright decided the best way to engage in an open "dialogue" with me, our association and/or our community was to print off a stack of these letters (in a very classy paper stock!) to hand out at their exhibitor booth. I fully appreciate, and can understand the rationale behind trying to open up a dialogue. However, Access Copyright tried to circumvent a democratic process, refused to engage in a public dialogue, and tried to misrepresent and embarrass OLITA on the exhibitors’ floor. I find these intimidation tactics unacceptable. We played fair. We brought no mention of Access Copyright's behaviour to the assembly floor. The resolution went forward with a single friendly amendment, and was passed unanimously. The OLITA membership has spoken. If Access Copyright would like to open a dialogue about why these resolutions were unanimously passed, now is the time to do so. Trackback URL for this post: http://ruebot.net/trackback/40188 
4221	Yes	My sister would fill up a video tape with episodes of Babylon 5 as they aired, and she’d send me each tape as it filled up. When a new tape arrived, my wife and I would watch the whole thing in one sitting. While I haven’t deliberately made time to watch any TV show since Babylon 5 ended in 1998 (not coincidentally the same year my son was born and I started my first full-time faculty job), I have caught up on a few more recent shows thanks to DVDs, and I strongly prefer experiencing them that way. I’d never heard of “House of Cards,” but thought the distribution method was interesting. “House of Cards,” which is the first show made specifically for Netflix, dispenses with some of the traditions that are so common on network TV, like flashbacks. There is less reason to remind viewers what happened in previous episodes, the producers say, because so many viewers will have just seen it. And if they don’t remember, Google is just a click away. The show “assumes you know what’s happening all the time, whereas television has to assume that a big chunk of the audience is always just tuning in,” said Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer. The producer Glen Mazzara took a similar approach to AMC’s “The Walking Dead” this year. In the second half of the season, which will start in mid-February after a two-month break, “we decided to pick up the action right away — to just jump right in,” Mr. Mazzara said. Fans of the show, he said, have little tolerance for recaps, since many of them will have just watched a marathon of the first half to prepare for the second. That the fans even have a choice in the matter is a testament to the fundamental changes under way in the television business. Digital video recorders, video-on-demand capabilities and streaming Web sites have given viewers command of what they watch and when, not unlike the way the invention of supermarkets gave food shoppers a panoply of new choices. In both cases, some consumers love to binge. via Netflix to Deliver All 13 Episodes of ‘House of Cards’ on One Day – NYTimes.com . 
4222	Yes	15-Year-Old Egyptian Cyber Activist Takes on Israel : dynamicafrica : How one teenager helped prep Gazans for an Internet shut off—with the help of Anonymous. Last week, when the Israel Defense Forces threatened to pull the switch on the Internet in Gaza, Nour Haridy wanted a backup plan. So the 15-year-old high-school student from Cairo went on Twitter and asked in Arabic and English for help on how Gazans could get back online in the event of a shutoff. What happened next shows the fine line between so-called cyberactivism—or using social media and the Internet to fight an information war—and hacking, the often illegal art of breaking into websites, email accounts, and other online domains for profit, fun, or a political cause. Haridy says he got many responses on Twitter, but the most promising were from people who said they were affiliated with Anonymous, a group of activist hackers that famously attacked the websites of the U.S. Department of Justice and companies it deemed enemies of WikiLeaks such as MasterCard and Amazon. Haridy soon found himself talking to the Anonymous hackers through a Gaza-specific Internet Relay Chat, a secure mode of communications favored by hackers, activists, and gamers. In those first conversations, Haridy says the hackers from Anonymous agreed to create a step-by-step plan for getting online through either dial-up connection or other means if the Internet were to go down. These instructions were incorporated onto a website Haridy and other cyberactivists created for Vox Palestine to disseminate information to Gazans during the war. “They helped us a lot,” Haridy said in an interview. “Without Anonymous we would not have reached the surface.” Efforts to reach Anonymous were unsuccessful. But while Haridy was putting the finishing touches on the Vox Palestine website, Anonymous was planning its own counter-offensive it had dubbed #OpIsrael. In a Nov. 17  YouTube message , a man in the group’s tell tale disguise of a Guy Fawkes mask read a message warning, “Israel, the angel of death has been called to your cyberspace.” The message claimed that the group had already defaced 10,000 Israeli websites, though Israeli officials dispute this number. Haridy says he thinks what Anonymous is doing “is necessary,” but says he and his group had nothing to do with the Anonymous attacks. Indeed, the Gaza IRC has a rule urging participants not to discuss “DDOS attacks,” or hacks that disable a website by overwhelming it with requests for information. ( READ MORE ) Continue reading → 
4223	Yes	"Slaaplied (Lullaby)" by Tonnus Oosterhoff : Link to English translation . This delicately scheduled poem about the last thoughts of a person apparently in a medical or hospice care facility is presented over the course of Glenn Gould ’s performance of Sinfonia No. 5 in E Flat Major, BVW 791 by  J.S. Bach. The poem is presented in small portions— as lines, phrases, single words, or even syllables— patiently synchronized with musical phrases . Listen carefully as you read and you’ll notice how dialogue is given distinct voices as two musical phrases alternate. The person’s thoughts have both a poetic and musical personality, and alternates between flights of fancy (or dream) and a reality that may have led to the current near-death situation. The scheduled presentation of the poem also serves to offer a different line structure from what eventually accumulates on screen, including a phrase that changes, which provides readers with two texts. This powerfully moving work that requires undivided attention and sensory focus from the reader to fully appreciate its artistry. 
4224	Yes	 Photo credit: Flickr user inacheapwestern . Five students will receive  $5,000 scholarships for using social media creatively  to celebrate the First Amendment through the #FreeToTweet scholarship competition. More than 3,600 tweets were sent with the #FreetoTweet hashtag during the first two weeks in December, sharing how people enjoy their right to free expression.  The winning students from across the nation were chosen based on the creativity and relevance of their tweets. Here is a sample of a winning tweet from  Anthony Jackson, a student at Ridgeway High School in Memphis, Tenn., who plans to study economics and computer science at the University of Chicago: “The government can’t be of the people, by the people, or for the people if they don’t know what the people want. Speak up amp; out. #FreeToTweet” Each of the winners were selected for his/her tweet based on the five distinct freedoms of the First Amendment: speech, press, religion, assembly and petition. For the full list of winners, visit  1forall.us/winners .  @ freetotweet2012  will also tweet the winning entries. The competition was organized by the  Newseum’s First Amendment Center ,  1 for All  and the  American Society of News Editors , with  funding provided by Knight Foundation . 
4225	Yes	 The title of this post is also the title of an incredible professional learning opportunity for educators to be hosted by Sabot at Stony Point , a PK-8 independent school in Richmond, VA. The title is actually a little misleading, as the Reggio Approach is not “new.” A recent piece in The Atlantic does a pretty good job of describing the history of this progressive approach to education. Born out of a desire to provide children with an enriching environment, the Reggio schools came to emphasize art and the beauty of the classroom. Children were encouraged to pursue their own projects and to use materials from nature in their work… More than anything, the schools were designed to bring color and activity into the lives of children of war. Teachers who came to the schools after their founding often brought university educations and a theoretical approach to teaching with them, but when applying their training they became eclectic, drawing on a number of thinkers (Dewey, Vygotsky) and testing their ideas to find a combination that seemed to work for students. Of particular note and interest to me is the involvement of Dr. Lella Gandini , the United States liaison for the dissemination of  the Reggio Emilia approach. Dr. Gandini has written extensively about the Reggio Emilia approach, especially for early childhood education. While the Reggio Approach is typically considered an orientation for early childhood education, the principles of progressive education embodied by the approach are widely applicable to education and learning at all levels. Sabot at Stony Point , the school hosting the event, lives the Reggio Approach from PK-8. Please consider attending the event described below. It should be a wonderful opportunity to explore a context for teaching practice that may not be new per se, but that may be new to you and others in your community.   [FULL DISCLOSURE: my son attends Sabot at Stony Point. The school stands to generate revenue from this event. But, please know I wouldn't send my child to the school if I didn't strongly believe in the Reggio Approach. Therefore, I would promote this event whether my son's school stood to benefit or not.] 
4226	Yes	The Pew Research Center recently released their report on Library Services in the Digital Age . In the ‘What people think is important for libraries to offer’ section a staggering 95% of respondents felt it was either very important (76%) or somewhat important (19%) for libraries to offer ‘Quiet study space.’ But is this really staggering? As I said a year ago , quiet spaces are getting fewer and farther between. And they are getting more expensive and more ‘elite.’ As we work so hard to surmount the ‘digital divide’ we are creating another divide — between chaos and calm; or between those who will have access to everything and those that have the priveledge of disconnecting. A recent article in Salon.com also points out how little coverage there has been on this topic. Not even Pew mentioned in their summary how highly-rated the service of silence was to library users.   
4227	Yes	The New LA Dodgers Rewards Program for Fan Loyalty Possibly taking some inspiration from the NFL , the LA Dodgers have created a new social rewards program to give out prizes and promote more fan loyalty online and at the field at Dodger Stadium The premise is the same as most other social rewards: participate in the team’s social media accounts, compete in leaderboards, earn points, and redeem them for prizes. Points can also be earned by purchasing MLB merchandise, recruiting friends to use the program, and checking into games with the MLB mobile app . In a statement about the new program, the Dodgers’ chief marketing officer, Lon Rosen, stated: “We are creating an interactive rewards portal for all things Dodgers. Being a sports fan is about passion and competition, and we believe through this platform we are entering the next phase of fan loyalty with the ultimate goal of rewarding our fans for their support.” While Rosen believes they are entering the next phase of fan loyalty, I see a missed opportunity for the Dodgers marketing team to have entered a  future  phase of fan loyalty. The Dodgers Reward Program  lists every way you can earn points in their program and all of them require participation with only their  pre-approved social media accounts and in order to earn points. It would be fascinating to have seen the Dodgers approach this concept across multiple different accounts, including unofficial ones, by using a universal platform (like Punchtab, for example). Approaching fan loyalty with this style of of laissez-faire  might be difficult to actually implement but the implications for leveraging true fan passion in this way could be quite profound. What do you think? Will this promote even more loyal users or is this simply another way of rewarding fans for what they would already do normally? You can check out the LA Dodgers Rewards Program at their official website  to give it a try. via The LA Times --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Increasing Fan Loyalty with the LA Dodgers Rewards Program appeared first on Gamification Co . 
4228	Yes	I finally had a little time to catch my breath before filling folks in on how last month’s NASA Social at Dryden went. For folks just tuning in, and asking “So, what’s a NASA Social?” I’m going to quote direct from the source. NASA Social is a program to provide opportunities for NASA’s social media followers to learn and share information about NASA’s missions, people, and programs. NASA Social is the next evolution in the agency’s social media efforts. Formerly called NASA Tweetup, NASA Social program includes both special in-person events and social media credentials for individuals who share the news in a significant way. This program has brought thousands of people together for unique social media experiences of exploration and discovery. You can read more about the Social program and events here . The reason applying to go to the January 25th Social was a big deal to me, aside from the OMG NASA factor? Social attendees get the same level of access as national press during a Social. We’re treated as an intelligent human beings, there to learn, record, photograph and ask questions about NASA programs. December 2012 : I apply for accreditation as a social media user to attend the NASA Airborne Science Social . I get rejected. I make a sad face but move on with life. Just because I can’t go doesn’t mean I can’t follow the event on Twitter. January 2013 : I get an email a few weeks before the Social saying I need to confirm my personal info for attendance. Confused, I ask if this email is a clerical error. The team writes back that no, the rejection was a clerical error, they hope I can still come. I hyperventilate and shake my hands for a few minutes, then get my brain cells together. I launch a GoFundMe to get me there, with any leftover cash going to equipment/other journalism expenses. It hits goal in 18 hours. Humbled, and ecstatic, I then had the pleasure of travel prep while my chat list was filling up with messages. A lot of people asked if I was going to JPL or another NASA facility, and seemed let down that I was at Dryden. What one Earth do they do at Dryden? For starters: they don’t spend a lot of time on terra firma. The Airborne Science program provides a number of aircraft for use by scientists to study air quality, improve our sensory examination of our atmosphere (which tells us a lot about our present and our future), and test new tech in the closest environment we have as a stand in for space. California Flying out from SeaTac to LAX. I left January 24th from Seattle, the night before the event. Bit of a mess getting down from Seattle, but nothing that couldn’t be lived with. Morning of, a snafu with my taxi led to me carpooling with incredible human and excellent Twitter newsie Jeff Wallace . If you’ve never checked in for a large event before, it’s not exciting. You have a big semi-organized mess of people getting checked in within a small space and they’re all talking. It started to feel exciting once we had our badges. If you’ve looked through anyone’s photos from the Social, we were all already taking photos and tweeting before we’d even left the parking lot. They managed to get all of us boarded up onto a large chartered bus, to take us from the Dryden Aircraft Operations Facility in Palmdale to NASA’s Dryden Flight Research Center at Edwards Air Force Base, in Edwards.     This starts our flurry of road pictures, pictures of badges, bus interior, and live tweeting the short documentary the NASA social media team for Dryden had snagged for us to watch. Number of folks live tweeted bits and pieces of that.         Heaven, newsie style. We got off the bus at the Air Force base, and this is when I’m going to go all newsie on you for a minute: they were properly set up for media. Till the Social, I’d been slapping together portable power together and writing stories on a cell phone keyboard at events for the past three years of freelancing. NASA had rows of tables, press packets of information, and all the power outlets we could possibly need. I felt like Elle Woods walking into the spa in Legally Blonde. I was also keenly aware  we were setting up all this mobile tech in a historic site older than just about everyone in the room. The Dryden Research facility started out in 1946, when NACA sent a small number of personnel (13) to the base for the first of the supersonic research flights to be conducted with the X-1. NACA, Army Air Forces and Bell Aircraft executed that research jointly.  Dryden’s named after Dr. Hugh L. Dryden, who was the director of NACA (National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics) NASA’s predecessor-organization.   Morning briefing schedule.   Once we were done powering up laptops, testing video and setting up our devices, we dove into the day. Kevin Rohrer, Chief of Strategic Communications at the Dryden Flight Research Center opened the morning session. Things we learned from introductions: you could not swing a cellphone cord without hitting a pilot, a pilot in training, or someone who homebrews beer. There’s a lengthy video of our introductions, taken by JeanCarl Bisson, if you want to see just how far I am from kidding. Patric Stoliker, the Deputy Center Director, did the official welcoming of social media newsies after Kevin had departed the podium. My favorite thing that he said was “I work at a historic place, and I am proud of that.” Everyone we met clearly loved their jobs, but Stoliker made my little ex-History major heart swoon. Because I’m also a fangirl for history. From there we had briefings with Ken Jucks, NASA Headquarters Upper Atmospheric Research Program Manager Ken covered a lot of information on atmospheric composition, particularly about global climate and climate change.  That’s thematic through every person and project we were introduced to: Airborne Science is doing crucial work today that we’re going to need to predict and survive tomorrow’s atmospheric changes. Eric Jensen, ATTREX Principal Investigator The A irborne  T ropical  TR opopause  EX periment uses a mind blowing-in-its-awesomeness aircraft called the Global Hawk. We don’t understand everything going on in the tropopause layer of our atmosphere, and that’s a problem. Without that missing piece of information, predictive modeling about the future of our atmosphere lack an important data point. ATTREX takes measurements multiple times a year as they work to advance our understanding of physical and chemical changes in the upper troposphere and lower stratosphere. More information on ATTREX can be accessed online . ATTREX draws on investigators from NASA, NOAA, universities abroad, and private companies. After Jensen wrapped up, we got to go down to  Global Hawk Country . Chris Naftel, Global Hawk Program Manager , was able to fill us in and show us around the hangar. Global Hawk aircraft. The two craft used for the Global Hawk project were originally from a series of aircraft built by the U.S. Air Force. It’s an unmanned craft, used for high altitude flights with long hours; Global Hawk craft can endure incredible flight times. The instruments and data accumulating in the Global Hawk craft can be monitored from the ground. With its technical specs, Global Hawk could become a worldwide operation, picking up atmospheric and weather data over a wide range of location. The ground station, maintenance facilities and NASA Global Hawk aircraft are operated by NASA Dryden and Northrop Grumman Aerospace Systems. Seeing it in person in the hangar was a little intimidating. 44 feet long, wingspan exceeds 116 feet, 15 feet tall. Global Hawk’s a gorgeous, comparatively light aircraft in comparison to some planes, and a significant amount of its takeoff weight is in fuel. Coolest Global Hawk fact: they’ve been flown over hurricanes.   Ever wanted to know what ‘taking a CAT scan of a hurricane’ might be like? Ground control does. From our talk with Naftel, we went on to meet Walter Klein, B200 Project Manager , and Delwyn Moller, JPL AirSWOT Principal Investigator . Klein and Dr. Moller.   There’s two Beechcraft; King Air #801, and the N7NA. N7NA can carry up to 11 passengers, and its main use is training up pilots and the transport of NASA personnel to places currently not served by commercial airlines. Because NASA doesn’t let those little details stop them from getting their job down. As for the King Air #801, the X-38 Space-Integrated GPS Inertial Navigation Experiment conducted on that aircraft led to the GNamp;C system which is used on the International Space Station .  The #801 is an amazing testbed for high altitude operations, and as GPS experiment demonstrates, Dryden research continues to pave the way to systems used in space. AirSWOT is awesome, because it sounds like science fiction when Moller broke the project down for us. NASA/Centre National d’Etudes Spatiales/Canadian Space Agency Surface Water Ocean Topography (SWOT) are doing a joint project. Which makes it the first ever global survey of surface water. Here, on this little planet of ours. All the surface water. They’re going to measure that. How fucking cool is that? AirSWOT is a Ka-band radar interferometer that makes incredibly precise measurements, which give us 2-d elevation maps and radar images.  To define my phrasing of incredibly precise: 1 centimeter precision. When you take it over land and measure the height, width and depth of various bodies of water, the data that comes out should further the understanding of the water cycle as it paints a clearer picture of river discharge, lake storage, data points that are needed to better study what’s going on with the world’s water. When you turn AirSWOT to measuring the ocean, that’s capturing data about current, height of sea surface, further filling in what we know about oceanic kinetic energy and the ocean’s role in the planet’s water cycle. We had a brief lunch break before we left to start the second part of our day in Palmdale. Tomorrow you can read about what we learned in the afternoon session with NASA. I tweeted throughout the morning and afternoon sessions; you can see some of the morning tweets and get a sneak peek at the afternoon via my Storify .   
4229	Yes	This summer I will close up shop at the Harvard Society of Fellows, where I#39;ve enjoyed three years of uninhibited research time, and return to the life of teaching as Assistant Professor of Britain and its Empire at Brown University in Providence, RI.  I#39;m immensely looking forward to the transition.  Research time is fantastic, but teaching is generally where our best ideas and most rigorous thinking comes from.  Students, even more than colleagues, challenge us to remain relevant, to take opposing points of view seriously, and to witness directly to voices from the past. The History Department at Brown takes its undergraduates seriously, and I've been urged by my colleagues to offer courses that will attract non-majors from a variety of fields, and to overtly engage with my commitments to land and water use and the history of capitalism. In my time as a researcher, I#39;ve visited leaders in land reform and international infrastructure investment and worker cooperatives who have emphasized how hard it is to find undergraduates sensitive to both ecology and governance, and how important the lens of history is to their work.  In particular, I#39;ve found myself in conversations about the future of land use around the globe, which entertain the challenges of driving investment towards clean water and sustainable cities (consider this map of coming water crises prepared by NASA).  Investors, governments, NGOs, and community groups all need to hire students prepared to understand how flows of capital and participation have failed to serve communities in the past.  History majors, far more than economists, political scientists, or area studies majors, are prepared to understand the wider shape of institutions, the long legacy of colonialism and bureaucracy in general, and the challenges of capitalism, both its potential to reform and its potential to exclude.  I hope to raise up an army of undergraduates who understand how to look at contemporary crises, from the environment to economic breakdown, from the perspective of institutions in our shared past. The traditional categories of the history discipline are at work here in an emphasis on the story of institutions, social movements, capital flows, how their nature changes over time, and what resources are necessary to understand them.  The History of Britain and its Empire remains a subtext in the range of examples that will appear in both classes.  Examples for the histories of cities and the rise of infrastructure and back-to-the-land movements and environmental and organic successes and failures will be drawn disproportionately from the realm of British historiography, which remains, for reasons of geographical spread and political innovation, an excellent place to examine transitions to modernity in all its forms.  Digital history will be urged in the form of text-mining and mapping exercises, which will support student-driven explorations of aggregate movements over time, for instance, geoparsing World Bank reports with Paper Machines to show how patterns of intervention in infrastructure vs informal development have progressed over time.  There will be a lot of critical reading in the history of economics as well -- Adam Smith is almost always a figure on my syllabi -- and a good deal of recent reading in the history of recent flows of capital, likely including Nicholas Shaxton and Wendy Wolford among others.  I hope to instrumentalize the traditional tools of historical analysis to look at the world around us now, to understand how it differs from the challenges of environmentalism in Rachel Carson#39;s era, or the challenges of floods in the early modern Netherlands -- and to give students the confidence and tools to commit similar forms of analysis themselves. Utopias and Other Wastelands  Advanced undergraduate/grad student seminar.  Radical thought has urged upon us a return to utopias and alternative geographies, both in the form of living movements like the MST (Landless Workers#39; Movement), World Social Forum, Occupy, or StrikeDebt, as they proclaim, “Another World is Possible,” and in the form of intellectual treatises affiliated with this movement that explore the agency of “heterotopias” or “Temporary Autonomous Zones” as geotemporal sites of utopian agency. In general, historians have been skeptical about the role of utopias to trigger social change, viewing them at best as escape valves for privilege during economic downturns, at worst dangerous experiments in surveillance. Yet from generation to generation, social movements have challenged the world around them, imagining the transformation of particular retreats, cities, and nations as a laboratory for experimentation with the future.  What factors are necessary for a social movement to grow? Where have international coalitions of reformers or rebels exempted themselves from the contemporary world system, or forged tools for reform and resistance, or carved out a temporary autonomous zone for critique? We will look at the international Progressive movement, appropriate technology, trade unions and cooperatives as examples of modern movements that, doomed in one nation, occasionally flourished elsewhere. Themes will include the esoteric and geographically isolated examples like back-to-the-land movements and psychological/sexual reform movements, as well as mainstream movements that began as utopian plans for remaking the world: democratic reform, scientific collection and curation of a more abundant or sustainable agriculture, Fabian socialism, and the welfare state. We will interpret the conservative utopias of Ayn Rand and Milton Friedman alongside the radical utopias of Theosophists. Twentieth-century stories will trace the fates of these utopias through the rise of organic farming, cooperativism, civil rights, Gandhi’s Satyagraha, the Green Revolution, and human rights. We will be looking into the alliances of professionals, experts, national legislators, capitalism and the organs of world government, trying to understand the alignments of power that caused some of these movements to flourish and others to falter. The class will raise questions of agency, asking when individuals and collectives have the opportunity to change the world around them and how we measure their success across the grander sweep of historical time.  Land Use and Capitalism, 1350-2060   Undergraduate introductory lecture course, no prerequisites.  We live in an era of enormous storms, ecological genocide, evictions, and pollution. While all cultures interact with the territory around them, modern political institutions have developed the means to transform landscapes at an unprecedented scale for the purposes of political security and economic growth. How are the failures to relate to our environment continuous with those of earlier civilizations?  This course offers an overview of major traditions for analyzing landscape in political economy, theology, literature, and anthropology, asking how the imaginary landscapes of the mind become the material realities of farm and highway. Themes will include the rise of modern, surveying, engineering, cities, infrastructure systems, and land reform. It will ask how historic models of government have played out in an era of environmental disaster, famine, mortgages, and evictions. The course will explore tensions between political centralization and heterotopias, nomadic and settled people, peoples' movements and finance, exploring questions about the spiritual, economic, aesthetic, ecological, and political relationship of people to their territory.
4230	Yes	 Information visualization firm Periscopic just published a thoughtful interactive piece on gun murders in the United States, in 2010 . It starts with the individuals: when they were killed, coupled with the years they potentially lost. Each arc represents a person, with lived years in orange and the difference in potential years in white. A mouseover on each arc shows more details about that person. You can then select categories and demographics, which provide comparisons between ethnicities, gun type, sex, and others. Roll over the bar in the middle for a density plot representation. Finally, specific breakouts on the bottom provide notables in the data and what they mean. There are many routes that you could take with this data. At its core, it#39;s a multivariate dataset with many observations over an entire year. But Periscopic pays close attention to the context and the sensitivity of the data. They make the data relatable while also providing a view of the big picture—without stripping away what the data means. See it live here . 
4231	Yes	 
4232	Yes	
4233	Yes	GCo’s Gamification Database Resources We’ve noticed that there are very few resources for individuals wanting to learn more about companies in the gamification space. The kinds of question we continue to observe on a regular basis look like: What are some examples of gamification? What companies are using gamification? How can I gamify my service/product? Which gamification service provider should I use? There are valid questions for someone looking to explore the space but its not always apparent where one can start, which is why we built two resources for anyone curious about gamification to explore: The Gamification Buyer’s Guide and The GBase .   The Gamification Buyer’s Guide The Buyer’s Guide is for people and companies who are in need of gamification services but are not sure what companies can provide these services and which is the best fit. This database holds over 35 (and growing) gamification providers who can assist with gamifying any project. Browsing the vendors is also made convenient with the ability to filter out companies by industry, type of service offering, pricing models, and special features. Be sure to browse through the vendor’s page and see who’s right for you! If your company is a gamification, engagement and/or loyalty service provider, you can apply to be in the Buyer’s Guide for free by filling out this form .   The GBase The GBase is short for “Gamification Database” and it is a database of our favorite gamification projects and many user-submitted gamified projects. You can also filter out the database by industry and find the most relevant projects to you for inspiration. New entries for the GBase can also be submitted by filling out this form. The Buyer’s Guide and GBase are the top two gamification database resources available online. For anyone wanting to learn more about the gamification space and industry, these two resources will be extremely helpful to learn more about what’s currently out there and how you can use gamification as a strategy to stay competitive amp; to grow your business.   Image by  CollegeDegrees360 --- GSummit 2013 (April 16-18) is the only global event that brings together top experts in engaging design. Register now to see top experts share their secrets of how to create engagement and create key executive strategies for the enterprise, human resources, loyalty, and marketing at GSummit.com For being an awesome part of our Community, here's an additional $50 off your ticket purchase. Use code IMAWESOME at Registration. The post Gamification Database Resources: Learn About Gamification! appeared first on Gamification Co . 
4234	Yes	 This tool runs best in Chrome and Safari In the coming weeks, I’ll be teaching several workshops on humanities network analysis and representation using Gephi: Here at Stanford for Hist 10W: Visualizing Evidence At UC Berkeley for the D-Lab At the University of Kansas along with a talk on networks in the humanities These are invariably billed as “Gephi Workshops” but really they’re an introduction to networks, network analysis, and network visualization (I prefer “representation”) for humanities scholarship. So, to better facilitate teaching folks about networks, I built this network toy using D3.js for all the information visualization bits . If you’re going to play with it, you should probably do so in Safari or Chrome, since it uses range sliders and SVG, which does not run so well in Firefox or Internet Explorer. It’s very rough, but I hope to get some feedback on it before these workshops, as well as provide anyone who might be taking these workshops or otherwise interested in the subject matter a chance to play with it. I built this for three audiences, really. The first is the growing body of humanities scholars who feel that networks have something to do with understanding the phenomena they research. The second is the general public, who I think is becoming more and more exposed to and familiar with network visualization. The third audience was me. By building something like this in JavaScript, it forced me to better understand the metrics and principles of networks than I did by using out-of-the-box algorithms. I want to iterate that this is very rough, and there are not only many missing pieces, but also likely to be issues with the implementations. I’ve tried to note when that’s the case, but I hope to extend this tool/toy as I have time and as I receive feedback. 
4235	Yes	This week I want to talk about a favorite American pastime that is an unusually recurrent theme in reality television. Plastic surgery!!! Yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay. On the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills , Kim Richards decides it’s time to get something done on her face. She’s just not sure what yet. But her doctor says no to everything except a nose job. So that’s what she is going with! On Shahs of Sunset  (2:9, “Hard for me to Say I’m Sorry”) Gigi and Lilly talk plastic surgery and become educated in ‘gum whitening’ procedures. My favorite part is that Lilly has mostly decided that, despite Gigi’s repetitive violent tantrums and generally abhorrent behavior, that she likes Gigi because she is “pretty and skinny.” Lilly claims that “the key to cosmetic work .. is moderation.” But it seems difficult for many to stop after getting a few procedures done. Ahem. By the way, there is a new show– TLC’s Plastic Wives , about the wives of plastic surgeons. Apparently you can tell just how good a plastic surgeon is by looking at his lady, his own personal, ongoing work of art. Though we like to think of reality television as exploiting the extremes of society for our own voyeuristic pleasures, plastic surgery is of course very common nowadays. And in fact, more or less true to reality TV representations, Beverly Hills is the top city in the U.S. for plastic surgery. And as we see with much plastic surgery nowadays, it’s really not about looking natural for many people, but for having the most unique extremity or feature possible. Often, the smallest or biggest that something can be, the more appealing it is to people. The standards for spectacles have been raised such that some want their appearance to be hyperbolic. Here’s a favorite of mine from MTV’s I Have A Hot Mom . Tori is a teenager who has to deal with her mom Lacey’s racy styles of dress–and her larger than life chest. Get More: True Life , Full Episodes Plastic surgery, in all of its forms, is indeed a fact of contemporary life. But just because it’s common, does not mean that it is not dangerous or unhealthy at times. Gluteal injections are becoming more and more popular in America. And there are documented cases of many being performed under the table, by people with no proper medical credentials, who have been found to use tire sealant and concrete in lieu of medical grade silicone. There have recently been several cases of fatalities in America as the result of such procedures, such as this one one . Is it part of a liberal, individualistic first-world society that makes us hell-bent on shaping ourselves into the most attractive brand we can be? Is it the result of overly restrictive standards of beauty? Is it as simple as being competitive with other members of our species and finding the best possible mates? Regardless of the reasons, we’re addled by plastic surgery. To end on a lighter note, we are reminded of the importance of well-hydrated heels. On the Real Housewives of Atlanta , we see that Porsha and Kenya decide to argue in a restaurant. Finding the classiest way possible of bidding adieu, Porsha attempts to make Kenya painfully aware of her “ashy feet.”   All cosmetics, surgical or otherwise, can get you called out on Real Housewives . 
4236	Yes	’Tis the season once again to read and score library-school applications, and the Loon has been doing her share. This year’s tidbit of advice for applicants: you don’t know who will be reading your application, so don’t openly slag any particular part of the information enterprise, all right? Your print-rules-digital-drools cri de coeur may be read by the department’s die-hard print-bookists. It may also be read by the Loon, who is as far from print-books-forever as it is possible to be while still appreciating print. “Digital drools” makes the Loon want to weight an application with so many rocks that it sinks to the veriest bottom of the lake-mud and will never surface again. Aficionados of the digital: the same is true in reverse, so watch it with the casual “print is dead” rhetoric. It is perfectly fine to express enthusiasm for print. Or digital. Or glass negatives. Or film. Or whatever. What is not fine is expressing distaste (“that digital stuff is okay if you’re into it, but…” particularly irks the Loon), distrust, disenthusiasm, or really dis-anything for what is not your favored medium. The information professions straddle all media, ergo library schools do as well. Be conscious of that, and pitch your application essay accordingly. The Loon thanks you. 
4237	Yes	 In honor of my new arrival here at NINES, please enjoy an image of the week that celebrates all things new and in movement. The photograph above, &#8220;New York Arrives,&#8221; shows the U.S.S. City of New York and comes from the George Grantham Bain Collection at the Library of Congress. 
4238	Yes	 phd2published.com - Charlotte FrostHybrid Pedagogy&rsquo;s&nbsp;Jesse Stommel and our&nbsp;very own Charlotte Frost rethink academic life and writing productivity&nbsp;in this on-going series of hints, tips and hacks.TEACH TO WRITE. We strongly encourage building the interests of your current writing project, where possible, into the syllabi for courses you&rsquo;re teaching. This doesn&rsquo;t mean you should teach an entire course to college freshman in the evolution of the North American cave cricket or a senior seminar studying the penmanship in Jane Auste...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @charlottefrost: More from me and @ jessifer : How to be a Hackademic #44 by Charlotte Frost  Jesse Stommel: bit.ly/13SVSV8 29.07.2013 13.47.20 @PatrickRiot: More from me on @ PhD2Published : How to be a Hackademic #44 by Charlotte Frost  Jesse Stommel bit.ly/13SVSV8 29.07.2013 13.36.01 @charlottefrost: More from me on @ PhD2Published : How to be a Hackademic #44 by Charlotte Frost  Jesse Stommel bit.ly/13SVSV8 29.07.2013 13.35.36 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @PhD2Published: New blog post: How to be a Hackademic #44 by Charlotte Frost  Jesse Stommel: bit.ly/13SVSV8 29.07.2013 13.49.05 
4239	Yes	 mdpi.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt; posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @gorshell: Open Access and the Changing Landscape of Research Impact Indicators: New Roles for Repositories buff.ly/1c5flqB 29.07.2013 14.08.02 @stuartayeates: Isabel Bernal mdpi.com/2304-6775/1/2/&hellip;: the crucial battle in OA is who organizes symbolic value. Right now, it is Thomson-Reuters!!!! 29.07.2013 05.53.09 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @openhumanities: Isabel Bernal mdpi.com/2304-6775/1/2/&hellip;: the crucial battle in OA is who organizes symbolic value. Right now, it is Thomson-Reuters!!!! 29.07.2013 05.50.54 
4240	Yes	 twitter.com Instantly connect to what's most important to you. Follow your friends, experts, favorite celebrities, and breaking news. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @historybeagle: Cute! RT @ bschillace : The Grammar of wolves! pic.twitter.com/Aa1pN7SUMh&rdquo; via @ sjacobsen13 29.07.2013 14.21.11 @bschillace: The Grammar of wolves! RT &ldquo;@ sjacobsen13 : Made me think of you  the 'were'-wolves you warned us about in class! pic.twitter.com/tr8e6eqDaT&rdquo; 29.07.2013 14.18.49 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4241	Yes	 insidehighered.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt; posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @mary_churchill: &quot;Career Education Corp. expands major adaptive learning experiment&quot; bit.ly/14dkACv @ paulfain @ insidehighered 29.07.2013 14.46.58 @jmcclurken: Career Education Corp. expands major adaptive learning experiment | Inside Higher Ed insidehighered.com/news/2013/07/2&hellip; 29.07.2013 14.45.15 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4242	Yes	 friendsofdarwin.com - Richard Carter, FCD 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;If Charles Darwin taught us anything, it's that nothing is permanent. Things change. It's inevitable.Back in April, the Bank of England announced that Sir Winston Churchill is to replace Elizabeth Fry on its &pound;5 note. Good call, if you ask me: Churchill certainly had his faults, but he is perhaps our most famous statesman, was a great orator, and was our leader in what many people think of as our finest hour; Elizabeth Fry is mainly remembered, when she's remembered at all, for, well, being on ...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @bschillace: @ bschillace &quot;@ friendsofdarwin That post wasn't by me; I just linked to it. Here were my thoughts on subject: friendsofdarwin.com/2013/07/201307&hellip;&quot; 29.07.2013 14.29.25 @historybeagle: @ bschillace &quot;@ friendsofdarwin That post wasn't by me; I just linked to it. Here were my thoughts on subject: friendsofdarwin.com/2013/07/201307&hellip;&quot; 29.07.2013 14.21.58 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4243	Yes	 bbc.co.uk 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Caligula's name has become a by-word for depraved tyranny. Historian Mary Beard asks, was he mad, bad, or merely the victim of a smear campaign? posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @fleming77: BBCnews website have made #caligula look wonderfully striking bbc.in/1cfSxmH Nice pic of John Hurt too, plus a few words by me. 29.07.2013 12.45.54 @gorshell: Does Caligula deserve his bad reputation?bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-&hellip; 29.07.2013 12.04.58 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @wmarybeard: BBCnews website have made #caligula look wonderfully striking bbc.in/1cfSxmH Nice pic of John Hurt too, plus a few words by me. 29.07.2013 12.40.39 
4244	Yes	 cooliphoneipadapps.com - V. Mahfood 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Developer Quote: &quot;Textal is an innovative, free app that allows you to create clickable wordclouds from a website, tweet stream, or document, to explore the relationships between words in the text.&quot; - COST: &nbsp; &nbsp; Free &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - APP STORE STARS: &nbsp; &nbsp; Not Yet Rated - Categories: Education, Lifestyle, Lists, Social Networking, Tools, Utilities Educators, social networkers and avid readers consume and digest words eagerly on a daily basis. While some readers simply accept their printed mater...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @simon_mahony: Another great review for our @ textal iPhone text analysis app - have you tried it yet? cooliphoneipadapps.com/2013/07/textal&hellip; #digitalhumanities 29.07.2013 14.41.51 @UCLDH: Another great review for our @ textal iPhone text analysis app - have you tried it yet? cooliphoneipadapps.com/2013/07/textal&hellip; #digitalhumanities 29.07.2013 13.50.00 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @textal: Another fab review of @ textal cooliphoneipadapps.com/2013/07/textal&hellip; &quot;the best products are the ones you didn't even know you needed until they came along&quot; 29.07.2013 13.51.40 
4245	Yes	 hastac.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @fleming77: Terrifically insightful article by Cathy Davidson about MOOCs. A must-read for anyone in Higher Ed tinyurl.com/qgby279 29.07.2013 14.00.57 @jjn1: Terrifically insightful article by Cathy Davidson about MOOCs. A must-read for anyone in Higher Ed tinyurl.com/qgby279 29.07.2013 13.47.51 @CathyNDavidson: Rethinking education &quot;together, wisely, well, and now.&quot; Schadenfreude for the MOOC hastac.org/blogs/cathy-da&hellip; 29.07.2013 07.53.14 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4246	Yes	 charlottemathieson.wordpress.com - Charlotte Mathieson 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;My visit to Liverpool this week for the Neo-Victorian Cultures conference signalled a bit of a change in direction from my usual research interests. Although I&rsquo;ve long had an interest in neo-Victorian fiction and enjoy reading it in my spare time, my research has stood firmly in the Victorian period since the start of my PhD. Over the last year, however, I&rsquo;ve become increasingly interested in the ways in which the Victorians are situated in contemporary culture and how these engagements with the&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @andrewking2904: Neo-Victorian Cultures: the Victorians Today - latest blog with post-conference thoughts on #neovictorian contexts charlottemathieson.wordpress.com/2013/07/28/neo&hellip; 29.07.2013 13.40.20 @cemathieson: Neo-Victorian Cultures: the Victorians Today - latest blog with post-conference thoughts on #neovictorian contexts charlottemathieson.wordpress.com/2013/07/28/neo&hellip; 29.07.2013 11.15.55 @Nadine_Muller: Neo-Victorian Cultures: The Victorians Today @ LJMU, 24-26th July 2013 wp.me/p2zcxZ-ag 28.07.2013 22.53.27 @Nadine_Muller: A few thoughts on @ Neo_Vic_Cult after the fabulous conference this week! charlottemathieson.wordpress.com/2013/07/28/neo&hellip; #neovic13 #neovictorian #victorian 28.07.2013 22.53.08 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4247	Yes	 guardian.co.uk - Kate Kellaway 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;The BBC series has made the White Queen Philippa Gregory's most popular heroine yet. Kate Kellaway talks to the author about history's forgotten women, the Tudors' teeth &ndash; and spats with StarkeyI am on the train to North Yorkshire where Philippa Gregory lives and have been so engrossed by her latest novel, I'm pages from the end when I alight at Yarm station. The White Princess takes over from where The White Queen, subject of the BBC drama series about the War of the Roses, leaves off and I h...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @DavidUnderdown9: &quot;The more research I do, the more I think there is an untold history of women.&quot; Unearthing history's forgotten women gu.com/p/3hgqd/tw 29.07.2013 14.16.05 @gorshell: Philippa Gregory: unearthing history's forgotten women gu.com/p/3hgqd/tw 29.07.2013 13.46.03 @CarolineMMcGee: &quot;The more research I do, the more I think there is an untold history of women.&quot; Unearthing history's forgotten women gu.com/p/3hgqd/tw 29.07.2013 13.36.52 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @GuardianBooks: Philippa Gregory: unearthing history's forgotten women gu.com/p/3hgqd/tw 29.07.2013 13.35.48 
4248	Yes	 materialcultures.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Images and descriptions of artefacts from around the world that depict owls. Part 2 of a two-part series. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @bschillace: Symbolism of the owl in human culture across the ages: Owls - Part 2 | Material Cultures @ materialcult materialcultures.com/owls-part-2/#.&hellip; 29.07.2013 14.20.38 @historybeagle: Wonderful wols! MT @ fiona_lang : Symbolism of the owl across the ages: @ materialcult materialcultures.com/owls-part-2/#.&hellip; cc @ RachelOlympics 29.07.2013 14.06.43 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4249	Yes	 For my Infinite Ulysses participatory edition, I’m building a digital edition interface that allows site visitors to create and interact with a potentially high number of annotations and interpretations of Joyce&#8217;s novel. The features of my site draw on existing exemplars of community content submission and discussion&#8211;particularly Reddit and StackExchange, two thriving hubs of people interacting with digital text. Readers on these sites are interacting with different content than a literary edition, for the most part; the success of the mechanisms supporting those interactions is fairly text-agnostic, however, relying more on an understanding of how people interact online than what content they&#8217;re interacting with. Reddit isn&#8217;t all memes, but here: Hey, this book isn&#8217;t that difficul&#8211;oh. StackExchange is a group of QA sites that match experts up with questions in a specific field of knowledge&#8211;originally computing questions, but now a diverse range of specialties including Drupal, cooking, and English language usage. I&#8217;ve blogged about academically useful corners of Reddit previously; I&#8217;ll add another fascinating subreddit to the list for anyone seeking quality content on the site: Theory of Reddit (r/theoryofreddit), a space for assessing how the entire community is functioning, whether that&#8217;s discussing how upvoting is meant to work (upvote content that is a positive addition to the site, downvote things that you don&#8217;t want to see as part of the community thoughtspace) and how upvoting actually works (people upvote things they agree with, downvote things they disagree with), graphing changes in the Flesch-Kincaid reading level of comments over time since the beginning of the site, or troubleshooting underprovision (&#8220;when too many people rely on others to contribute without doing so themselves&#8221;). Theory of Reddit is a moderated/curated subreddit that defines itself as &#8220;a mildly navel-gazing space for inquiring into what makes Reddit communities work and what we in a community can do to help make it better&#8221;&#8211;in other words, an online community talking about being an online community, with the best discussion promoted to the top. Besides the abstract use of such online community meta-cognition for participatory digital edition developers, Theory of Reddit and StackExchange have been useful in planning some specific features for Infinite Ulysses: 1. A tool becomes how its community uses it. At least partially, the usage of an online community develops organically: another fine reason for user testing and a readiness to adapt as the user community grows and changes over time. I&#8217;m fascinated with Reddit&#8217;s unintentional awarding of high-visibility platforms to people who provide highly upvoted content. Users are able to edit posts after posting them; posts that make the front page (i.e. get enough upvotes to be seen by a huge number of site visitors) will usually get a small addendum on the text of the post to the effect of &#8220;wow, I made the front page&#8221;&#8211;but there&#8217;s the potential (sometimes embraced) to use that editing power to expose a large number of readers to your thoughts on any subject (e.g. political activism). I like that providers of &#8220;good&#8221; content (for some meaning of good) are rewarded with more viewers; I also like the reminder that people will use a site the way that makes sense to them, oftentimes the way that is most convenient. Although I initially anticipated Infinite Ulysses as a place where people would add contextual annotations to the novel, I quickly realized that many readers would use the annotation field to ask questions or simply mark things they don&#8217;t understand. It&#8217;s probably going to happen; I can&#8217;t prevent it, and I wouldn&#8217;t want to stop it. To build toward that realistic site usage&#8211;acknowledging that to read a difficult book is to have questions as well as answers!&#8211;I&#8217;ll borrow a feature from the StackExchange sites, which provide a list of unanswered questions on the site (which you can also pull into your RSS feed). This way, Joyce junkies with a few spare minutes over lunch can pull up a question or two to answer, and I can identify points in the text in need of thicker annotation. I&#8217;ll also be able to remove the questions/notes marking non-comprehension so that they don&#8217;t clog the view of annotations with content, but I think it would also be useful and encouraging to first-time readers to leave some sort of simple sign behind to show that others struggled with the same point in the novel (perhaps a small icon, or a filter you can turn on to see highlighted text where questions were raised). 2. Choosing what to show near the top of a list of comments/annotation/tags isn&#8217;t as easy as it seems. Reddit suffers from a problem of the quickest comments on a post often getting the most upvotes, while later good comments get lost far down the page because readers don&#8217;t read far enough to assess them. Kaj Magnus Lindberg has a great post on this problem , where he advocates sorting not by upvotes only, but by upvotes divided by some measure of how much attention a post has received (views or time since the comment was posted). A similar issue crops up with the question of tagging annotations to allow filtering and toggling: do I define a limited vocabulary that readers can use, or allow users to create new tags? If I choose the latter, how do I deal with similar tags, misspellings, and variants? Even if I put an auto-complete option on the tagging field, the number of possible tags might become so staggering that most tags see little use, and different tagging words are created to basically tag the same thing. With both the questions of sorting comments (i.e. annotations) and wrangling tags, I&#8217;ll be reading up on how other online communities have handled the problems, and I also expect to make changes to the site after I see how real users interact with these options. 3. Reputation is established by your activity on the site. To reduce the load of work on moderators, StackExchange has tiered ranges of &#8220;reputation&#8221; points awarded for different activities on the site; new users start with a reduced number of capabilities that expand the more they contribute. This 2009 post on how StackExchange handles moderation emphasizes that abilities and &#8220;rep&#8221; are gained through active participation and providing content that others deem useful: &#8220;Reputation is a (very) rough measurement of how much the Stack Overflow community trusts you. Reputation is never given, it is earned by convincing other Stack Overflow users that you know what you’re talking about.&#8221; With this tiered system plus giving users the ability to flag problematic content for moderator consideration, users are both able to establish credibility and reduce the load of human moderation work. I&#8217;m not sure that I&#8217;d use a similar system on Infinite Ulysses; I want to attract a diverse array of Joycean experience to the site, but I worry about creating any bar to participation or hierarchy of who&#8217;s most valuable to the site. At the same time, I know that some reward for frequent contributions (a weekly top contributers? top question-answerers?) at least makes me more excited about contributing regularly to such a site. I&#8217;ll definitely at least keep private tabs on frequent contributors and try to highlight their work, perhaps by posting curated sets of their annotations on the front of the site on some rotational basis. Related posts: Infinite Ulysses: Planned Features for a Participatory Edition Infinite Ulysses: What if we build a digital edition and everyone shows up? Living Editions: What Seminars Can Teach Us About Building Digital Editions 
4250	Yes	 valuablecontent.co.uk - Sharon Tanton 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;If you work in web design you&rsquo;ll be familiar with Lorem Ipsum.&nbsp; If you don&rsquo;t, all you need to know is that it&rsquo;s the placeholder copy that designers use to fill in text boxes on work in progress.Content people really hate Lorem Ipsum. It says to us:&lsquo;The words don&rsquo;t matter very much. Just fill in this space with any old stuff. No one cares.&rsquo;We think that the stories &ndash; words and images &ndash; are the most important things on your website. &nbsp;You should be designing the site around the content, not lea...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(1) @anapanouoc: Why lorem ipsum will make your website design fail valuablecontent.co.uk/how-lorem-ipsu&hellip; So glad someone finally wrote that! It's so true. Via @ cjoh 29.07.2013 11.20.06 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(4) @Lambo: How Lorem Ipsum Makes Your Web Project Fail valuablecontent.co.uk/how-lorem-ipsu&hellip; Design is communication! Know what you're saying. 29.07.2013 12.37.35 @ranti: Why lorem ipsum will make your website design fail valuablecontent.co.uk/how-lorem-ipsu&hellip; So glad someone finally wrote that! It's so true. Via @ cjoh 29.07.2013 08.26.41 @timoreilly: Why lorem ipsum will make your website design fail valuablecontent.co.uk/how-lorem-ipsu&hellip; So glad someone finally wrote that! It's so true. Via @ cjoh 29.07.2013 07.58.04 @cjoh: .@ timoreilly definitely yelled at me about this: valuablecontent.co.uk/how-lorem-ipsu&hellip; 29.07.2013 06.07.44 
4251	Yes	 digitalclassicist.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @melissaterras: RT @ simon_mahony @ GretaFranzini A catalogue of digital editions. video/audio/slides now online digitalclassicist.org/wip/wip2013.ht&hellip; #DigiClass #dh 29.07.2013 12.09.23 @simon_mahony: @ GretaFranzini A catalogue of digital editions. video/audio/slides now online digitalclassicist.org/wip/wip2013.ht&hellip; #DigiClass 29.07.2013 11.17.17 @simon_mahony: Eleni Bozia: The Digital Epigraphy and Archaeology Project. video/audio/slides now onlinedigitalclassicist.org/wip/wip2013.ht&hellip; #DigiClass 29.07.2013 11.14.21 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @juliannenyhan: @ GretaFranzini A catalogue of digital editions. video/audio/slides now online digitalclassicist.org/wip/wip2013.ht&hellip; #DigiClass 29.07.2013 11.30.32 
4252	Yes	 blogs.lse.ac.uk 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;No-one wants to have their paper rejected by a top journal, but is there a silver lining to an initial disappointment? Vincent Calcagno finds that papers that are resubmitted to a second or third c... posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @LizWalkleyHall: Reading RT @ LSEImpactBlog : Pre-publication history of articles tells us that rejection leads to higher citations bit.ly/18GUbyy 29.07.2013 11.00.52 @gmpatmaca: &quot;Papers resubmitted to sec or third choice journal more likely to receive higher number of citations when published.&quot; bit.ly/18GUbyy 29.07.2013 10.58.09 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @LSEImpactBlog: Pre-publication history of articles tells us that rejection leads to higher citations bit.ly/18GUbyy 29.07.2013 10.19.04 
4253	Yes	 digitalhumanities.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @JonathanHsy: Resources for Starting and Sustaining DH Centers buff.ly/13lYw1j 29.07.2013 09.20.51 @dorothyk98: Resources for Starting and Sustaining DH Centers buff.ly/13lYw1j 29.07.2013 09.17.04 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @Ryan__Hunt: Resources for Starting and Sustaining DH Centers buff.ly/13lYw1j 29.07.2013 08.43.07 
4254	Yes	 Hi, I have a beginners question re TEI 5 and would be grateful for any suggestions re same. How does one begin to encode metdata? ie: I have a transcription and am doing a very light encoding thereof - just , , (which hopefully are correct!). If I have footnotes re certain parts of the main body of text, how to encode it and where to I place it in the TEI that I am writing in Oxygen Editor (ie: How do I show what the info refers to? Do I keep the footnote system?) Thanks. 
4255	Yes	 nytimes.com - By NOAM COHEN 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;The American Historical Association caused a stir by asking universities to allow new Ph.D&rsquo;s to keep their dissertations from being circulated online for up to six years. posted by friends: &nbsp;(9) @Airminded: The American Historical Association's statement on PhD digital embargoes makes the New York Times nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip; 29.07.2013 12.32.02 @philshe: Historians who want PhDs to be history before sharing them online. A category mistake? Raw PhDs are rarely books nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip; 29.07.2013 11.00.05 @homophonous: &quot;If my scholarly career was based on my dissertation I probably would be washing dishes at Denny&rsquo;s.&quot; nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip; #AHAgate 29.07.2013 10.53.38 @inactinique: Et toute ma TL historienne US est furieuse contre l'AHA... &quot;@ SimonGrivet : Historians Seek a Delay in Dissertations, nyti.ms/13RUyBP&quot; 29.07.2013 10.40.34 @wgthomas3: Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations nyti.ms/17a4Pah 29.07.2013 10.36.49 @ahacker: Crucial issue: Will UPs take a #book based on an #openaccess #dissertation ? US #Historians argue for 6 year embargo!nyti.ms/13RUyBP 29.07.2013 10.12.25 @jaheppler: Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations nyti.ms/17a4Pah 29.07.2013 09.21.36 @will_tchak: RT @ nytimes : Link by Link: Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations nyti.ms/17NZdVy 29.07.2013 07.59.43 @james3neal: RT @ nytimes : Link by Link: Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations nyti.ms/17NZdVy 29.07.2013 07.41.13 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(3) @philosophybites: Historians who want PhDs to be history before sharing them online. A category mistake? Raw PhDs are rarely books nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip; 29.07.2013 09.15.38 @kwissoker: NYT last to arrive at last week's story. But not a bad treatment: Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations nyti.ms/17a4Pah 29.07.2013 07.56.03 @nytimes: Link by Link: Historians Seek a Delay in Posting Dissertations nyti.ms/17NZdVy 29.07.2013 07.38.35 
4256	Yes	 I was asked about the most iconic data graphics in the last ten years for an article on FastCoLabs last week (so were  Andy Kirk  and  Matt Stiles ). It’s an interesting question not only because of the actual choices, but also the criteria to use. Is something iconic because of its unique look and/or shape? Does it have to have impact? What is an iconic visualization? One of my choices was the Bikini Chart , which is perhaps my favorite bar chart ever. It’s simple, clear, easy to read. It’s also unique in its shape. I’m not sure if it has had the impact that it was probably meant to have, though. Another choice was 512 Paths To the White House , which I think did have an enormous impact just before the 2012 Presidential election. It finally drove home to many people that the pundits were just producing a lot of hot air, while the statisticians (in particular Nate Silver) knew that the race was practically won. It came at exactly the right time and just worked incredibly well. Another easy choice was gapminder . Hans Rosling made a huge impact with his talks, and has set the bar for data-backed presentations. What all these have in common is that none of them came out of academic research. The first one was published by the Obama administration, the second one by the NY Times, and third one by a small non-profit. Where is academia in all of this? A lot of new things are thrown out into the world every year, but little effort is made to get them to stick. We could make a list of the most iconic things that have shown up in visualization publications, but it would seem like a rather artificial distinction. Also, what makes a visualization iconic? Some of the things I chose, like Hannah Fairfield’s extremely clever scatterplot , are not that well known or have a very distinct look. But they do something that hasn’t been done before. Perhaps iconic is the wrong term, anyway. But novel by itself isn’t enough. There needs to be something else: impact perhaps, or a new understanding of the data that wasn’t there before. The overall list is quite good. You can argue about individual items, but I think we hit the big ones. An interesting question would be how to make two or three lists using slightly different criteria (impact, novelty, etc.) and then compare how the different approaches fare. That wouldn’t make for as clear a headline, but it would be illuminating. 
4257	Yes	 twitter.com Instantly connect to what's most important to you. Follow your friends, experts, favorite celebrities, and breaking news. posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @meghanfrazer: The #owot team is getting to know one another. pic.twitter.com/zTcoH08KxS 29.07.2013 05.15.16 @samplereality: Not pictured: my &quot;mud and sand&quot; cocktail. RT @ briancroxall : The #owot team is getting to know one another. pic.twitter.com/qCs7wY1qPn 29.07.2013 03.54.15 @briancroxall: The #owot team is getting to know one another. pic.twitter.com/zTcoH08KxS 29.07.2013 03.18.02 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4258	Yes	 nytimes.com - By DAVID CARR 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Justin B. Smith, a president of the Atlantic Media Company who earned a reputation as an aggressive promoter of digital media, will be named chief executive of the Bloomberg Media Group. posted by friends: &nbsp;(0) posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(8) @tylercowen: Justin Smith is moving from Atlantic to Bloomberg, nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip;, a very smart guy. 29.07.2013 06.54.18 @jayrosen_nyu: Big loss for The Atlantic. Its president, Justin Smith, is leaving to head up Bloomberg's media operation. nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip; 29.07.2013 06.03.54 @nytimes: Bloomberg Media Recruits a New Chief From The Atlantic nyti.ms/17NRx5L 29.07.2013 05.58.55 @mathewi: Congrats Justin RT @ Justin_B_Smith : Thrilled to be joining the Bloomberg team nyti.ms/14ZVJRR 29.07.2013 05.38.14 @jbenton: Whoa RT @ cschweitz Holy moly: Bloomberg Media Recruits @ TheAtlantic 's Justin B. Smith as chief exec nie.mn/19rEH0L h/t @ ethanklapper 29.07.2013 05.28.14 @jeffjarvis: Huge hire for Bloomberg. I'm a great fan of @ justin_b_smith , the new CEO. nytimes.com/2013/07/29/bus&hellip; 29.07.2013 04.55.52 @carr2n: Change atop Bloomberg Media: Justin Smith will become CEO, replacing Andy Lack, who will be chairman, @ carr2n reports nyti.ms/1cf7Tri 29.07.2013 04.35.56 @jason_pontin: Wow: Atlantic Media president Justin Smith is the new CEO of Bloomberg's media division nyti.ms/14ZVJRR 29.07.2013 04.32.29 
4259	Yes	 1. Why Smokers Still Smoke “It’s their poor self-control.” 2. A Race to Save the Orange by Altering Its DNA “Do we really want to do this?” 3. Heat-Struck, July 1852 “You go home, disgusted with town, and mankind, and yourself, and long to be alone for awhile in a desert, until your misanthropic feelings are consoled and cured. The city is always dark enough, on its shaded side, even in Winter; but Summer, with all its gay sunshine, makes the shadows still darker and deeper.” 4. Status and Stress “The more helpless one feels when facing a given stressor … the more toxic that stressor’s effects. That sense of control tends to decline as one descends the socioeconomic ladder, with potentially grave consequences.” 5. Fighting Back Against Wretched Wages “In recent weeks, workers from McDonald’s, Taco Bell and other fast-food restaurants — many of them part-time employees — have staged one-day walkouts in New York, Chicago, Detroit and Seattle to protest their earnings.” 6. Can We See Our Hypocrisy to Animals? “Some day, will our descendants be mystified by how good and decent people in the early 21st century — that’s us — could have been so oblivious to the unethical treatment of animals?” 7. Bad in the Bones “Walter may have wanted us to believe — and may, at moments, have convinced himself — that he was a decent man driven by desperate circumstances to do terrible things, but that notion was either wishful thinking or tactical deceit. Viewed as a whole, in optimal binge conditions, with the blinds pulled down and the pizza boxes and chicken wrappers piling up around the couch, Breaking Bad reveals itself as the story of a man mastering his vocation and fighting to claim his rightful place in the world. Its dark, morally scandalous vision has been imposed on the kind of tale that is, more conventionally, an inspiring parable of entrepreneurial gumption. This formula turns out to be well suited to the times.” 9. Drugs, Sex, Sarcasm and Irony “In a way, all the adaptations of Mr. Ellis’s books are monster movies, turning his heroes into heartless creatures who feel nothing to let nothing hurt them.” 10. Birth of Another Spectacle, and Its Life “It’s on the edge of madness, but so is genius.” 11. Uh, Honey, That’s Not Your Line “While the Manic Pixie Dream Girl always rescues the man from the doldrums of life in the first act of the movie, the roles reverse in the end, with him ultimately saving her with his love. Beyond the coolness and excitement they bestow, this is the true gift of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl, because fixing something, especially when it’s a person, is what makes a man feel most valuable.” 12. Fallen Idols “Learning about a writer’s life changes your relationship with him. It sort of destroys the fantasy.” 13. Should Reddit Be Blamed for the Spreading of a Smear? “Reddit allows anyone to become Matt Drudge.” Filed under: new york times 
4260	Yes	 Three keynotes from the 2013 Joint Conference on Digital LIbraries, which took place in Indianapolis on July 22-26, are now available on Youtube. I had the honor of providing the opening keynote talk and was able to stay and enjoy the entire conference, which was excellent. I am also delighted that CNI was able to once again serve as a cooperation organization for the conference. The three keynotes were: My own, which dealt with issues about the changing nature of digital libaries and the shift to very large scale systems, and the challenges of coherence and prioritization that we face as a result of this shift. Jill Cousins, who spoke about the development and current state of the Europeana project (including a look at important very late breaking developments) And finally, Dave De Roure, who gave a very wide ranging talk about the implications of data intensive scholarship and implications for the future of the scholarly communications systems. Also announced at JCDL 2013 &#8212; you will want to hold the dates for the next JCDL meeting, which will actually be joint with TPDL (the European DIgital Libraries meeting), taking place in London, England on September 8-12, 2014. Clifford LynchDirector, CNI 
4261	Yes	 slate.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;It&rsquo;s got plenty of competition but this may just be the single most cringe-worthy, embarrassing interview broadcast on Fox News. At least in recent memory. Fox News anchor Lauren Green had religious scholar Reza Aslan on her show Friday to talk about Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of... posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @AmericanStudier: &quot;Because it&rsquo;s my job as an academic.&quot; For those who haven't seen Reza Aslan's stunning Fox interview yet. slate.me/17NhSRh 29.07.2013 05.09.18 @vlryan: &quot;Because it&rsquo;s my job as an academic.&quot; For those who haven't seen Reza Aslan's stunning Fox interview yet. slate.me/17NhSRh 29.07.2013 00.17.29 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(2) @DrDigiPol: MY GOD, @ FOXNEWS ' LAUREN GREEN IS AN IDIOT. You have to watch her incompetent interview w/ @ RezaAslan to believe it. slate.me/1cfl6R6 29.07.2013 06.04.50 @siobhanphillips: &quot;Because it&rsquo;s my job as an academic.&quot; For those who haven't seen Reza Aslan's stunning Fox interview yet. slate.me/17NhSRh 29.07.2013 05.08.01 
4262	Yes	 medievalists.net - Medievalists.net 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Our list of the best medieval maps - ten maps created between the sixth and sixteenth centuries, which offer unique views into how medieval people saw their world.The post Ten Beautiful Medieval Maps appeared first on Medievalists.net. posted by friends: &nbsp;(4) @melissaterras: RT @ gorshell Ten Beautiful Medieval Maps buff.ly/13gaQok 29.07.2013 12.57.39 @iridium: Ten Beautiful Medieval Maps buff.ly/13gaQok 29.07.2013 12.51.30 @gorshell: Ten Beautiful Medieval Maps buff.ly/13gaQok 29.07.2013 12.45.10 @dorothyk98: Ten Beautiful Medieval Maps ow.ly/nolDL #maps 29.07.2013 05.15.26 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @erik_kwakkel: Greatest hits for map buffs. &ldquo;@ Medievalists : Ten Beautiful Medieval Maps ow.ly/nolDL #maps &rdquo; 29.07.2013 04.04.59 
4263	Yes	 Dear Nico, The other day you turned a year and a half old. We celebrated by decompressing at home from our three-week road trip to Nebraska. You screamed with and without reason. Holy hell, it&#8217;s the season of big feelings with lungs to match. The feelings have been there for a few months, but now you can and do communicate them on your loudest, shrillest setting. I&#8217;m trying to minimize the perceived (by you) effectiveness of this method of communication, but damn, child, I&#8217;m here to tell you: it gets my attention every time. Especially when we&#8217;re in the car. That said, I&#8217;m happy to report that you&#8217;re a fantastic road trip companion. We drove a total of 3,823 miles to the DH2013 conference in Lincoln, Nebraska and back. We took a week to go each way, and stayed in Lincoln for another week. On the westward leg, we were joined by your cousin Tesher. It was a great vacation. On the way west, we went to Reptiland , where you quite enjoyed the komodo dragons and animatronic dinosaurs. We drove up and down Pennsylvania along state routes, and eventually you figured out how to make your ears stop hurting from all the driving up and down mountains. We went to Indian Echo Caverns , which you liked ok but only as long as your cousin was carrying you. None of this mama nonsense. (Tesher held up well, but come on, man, that was bordering on cruelty to teenagers!) We also went to Fallingwater , which you mostly didn&#8217;t see because they don&#8217;t allow the under-six crowd on tours—but I&#8217;ll take you there again. That place is something special. Somewhere in there I got strep throat. Surprise! Cousin T hung out with you while I went to get antibiotics. I was terrified that one of you would get it too, but you remained healthy and ate like small horses. Since an easy way to tell a toddler has strep is that they&#8217;re not eating or drinking because it hurts to do so, for once I felt my genetically informed impulse to feed you because  you&#8217;re too thin was justified for health reasons. We spent a day and a half in Chicago, where we swam in a huge clean lake and you got to try your first Italian ices—and your first carousel and Ferris wheel. You approached all of these with the usual basic-research mindset, and got so engrossed in the carousel motion that you didn&#8217;t notice the music stop. You usually notice whether there&#8217;s music (and, to my delight, love having it on). Then we drove on to Omaha, where we exchanged Tesher for our friends Molly and Natalie at the airport. These two joined us for the Lincoln portion of the adventure, and hung out with you while I conferenced. It worked! You visited the Lincoln Children&#8217;s Museum , like, five times; I think you might&#8217;ve gone to the zoo; you swam in the pool. Several times a day you breathlessly looked out the glass back wall of the elevator and lightly bounced, chanting &#8220;up&#8230; dow&#8230; up&#8230; dow&#8230;.&#8221; while most of the adults witnessing this cracked up. I assume those who didn&#8217;t, don&#8217;t have souls. Meanwhile, I ran around like crazy from session to meeting to super important atrium chat every day of the conference, morning to early evening, and some later evenings too. This used to be my every day, and things have only picked up since I became an only-occasional digital humanist. Someday, I&#8217;ll be delighted if you find work that thrills and inspires you like this stuff thrills and inspires me. Then the conference was over, and on the way back it was just the two of us with no particular plans and a week to get back. You road warrior, you. Held up like a pro. Oh, sure, there was some screaming, but I could  see the gears in your head whirring and clicking: you actually exercised patience when necessary. You&#8217;re a year and a half old; you aren&#8217;t supposed to have any patience yet. But you do. We had rest area picnics. You ate an ungodly amount of fruit and watched ants do their thing. You insisted on playing the on-off-on-off game with light switches in about a dozen hotel and motel rooms. You discovered the power button on a CRT TV. Swimming! You LOVE swimming. We did it in the Hudson River at the beginning of our trip, and you were beside yourself with joy. We did it again in Lake Michigan, and you squirmed like a happy little pollywog . We went to a hotel pool together, and you actually tried swimming on your belly like a big kid. I may have to get over my extreme dislike of chlorinated pools just to do swimming lessons with you, fish boy. We visited your great-uncle and great-aunt in Saint Louis, and you saw your aunt and some other relatives too. Never having seen these people in your life, five minutes into the visit you were clearly at home, demanding that Aunt Liza play clapping games with you and turning lights on and off with Uncle Roman. It was a lovely visit, and I missed your grandfather so. We visited our New York family again, too. And your babushka on the very last leg homeward. And then we were home. Since we came back, you&#8217;ve become  that toddler. You&#8217;ve leveled up in the scary direction, my friend. Every other word is a carefully considered no. Sometimes it&#8217;s &#8220;no no no no NO. no.&#8221; The screaming has subsided, though, so maybe we have some hope of productive negotiation. Yes? Let&#8217;s try for that. In the meantime, I&#8217;ll be over there with a glass of wine in my hand, reminding myself that at least now you have the attention span to sit through an entire movie, and that you bring me books to read, and that you invent games, and that all told life with you is full of laughter. Love you madly,-Mama p.s. Boo. p.p.s. More pictures still and moving, as usual. 
4264	Yes	 twitter.com Instantly connect to what's most important to you. Follow your friends, experts, favorite celebrities, and breaking news. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @veek: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 03.18.57 @LibSkrat: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 02.22.20 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(5) @textfiles: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 03.19.41 @ginatrapani: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 02.03.12 @lblanken: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 01.57.10 @mathewi: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 01.57.10 @wilw: Twitter says &quot;We have found the reported account is currently not in violation of the Twitter Rules at this time&quot; pic.twitter.com/HnJ6gueb3u 29.07.2013 01.52.08 
4265	Yes	 dhpoco.tumblr.com - saveusfromsaviors 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Through characters like Radhika, Nicholas Kristof&rsquo;s&nbsp;Half the Sky&nbsp;game erases the heterogeneous voices and complex struggles of &ldquo;Third World&quot; women, instead representing them singularly as victims in need of the Western game-player&rsquo;s rescue.&nbsp;This can have devastating material effects on &ldquo;Third World&quot; women, especially sex workers.&nbsp;Our spoof game, &ldquo;Escape from the White-Savior Industrial Complex,&quot; attempts to challenge&nbsp;Half the Sky&rsquo;s&nbsp;representations. posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @elotroalex: &quot;Save Us From Saviors&quot;: Awesome submission to #DHPoco ... fb.me/2v3wcuilG 29.07.2013 03.24.56 @dhpoco: &quot;Save Us From Saviors&quot;: Awesome submission to #DHPoco ... fb.me/2v3wcuilG 29.07.2013 00.42.36 @adelinekoh: &quot;Save Us From Saviors&quot;: Awesome submission to #DHPoco ... fb.me/2v3wcuilG 29.07.2013 00.13.48 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4266	Yes	 oneweekonetool.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(7) @wynkenhimself: So many great folks at #owot ; looking forward to seeing what they build! oneweekonetool.org 29.07.2013 03.31.43 @briancroxall: MT @ mia_out : The &lsquo;One Week, One Tool' website was updated! oneweekonetool.org Follow along at #owot 29.07.2013 02.32.37 @Literature_Geek: MT @ mia_out : The &lsquo;One Week, One Tool' website was updated! oneweekonetool.org Follow along at #owot 29.07.2013 02.27.51 @sekleinman: Off to One Week One Tool ( #owot , oneweekonetool.org), let the adventure begin. 29.07.2013 02.25.48 @foundhistory: Mass decentralization of IT  individual empowerment in highed exemplified by OneWeekOneTool starting today oneweekonetool.org #owot 29.07.2013 02.17.04 @mia_out: Ooh, the 'One Week, One Tool' website has been updated! oneweekonetool.org Follow along at #owot (also, this is why I'm using the tag) 29.07.2013 02.15.18 @shermandorn: For those following me who have no clue what #owot is: oneweekonetool.org -- last time, built first @ Anthologize version in a week. 29.07.2013 00.44.17 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4267	Yes	 oneweekonetool.org - Tom ScheinfeldtJuly 28, 2013Today the twelve members of the One Week | One Tool crew start their journey. Over the course of the next week, this diverse group&mdash;including developers, faculty members, museum professionals, a high school librarian, education technologists, and graduate and undergraduate students&mdash;will build a tool for digital humanities research and teaching, from conception to launch. One Week | One Tool 2013 is:Brian Croxall @briancroxall Jack Dougherty @DoughertyJack Meghan Frazer @MeghanFraz...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(7) @EdwiredMills: One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 03.33.15 @lubar: One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 02.57.34 @jmcclurken: Psyched! RT @ foundhistory : One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 02.47.48 @wragge: One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 02.35.51 @NEH_ODH: One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 02.28.01 @sleonchnm: Psyched! RT @ foundhistory : One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 02.18.27 @foundhistory: One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething 29.07.2013 02.15.36 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @ddchamberlain: &ldquo;@ foundhistory : One Week | One Tool is Here! Meet the crew and join in! bit.ly/14ZEP5U #owot #buildsomething &rdquo; // great group 29.07.2013 03.11.35 
4268	Yes	 scientificamerican.com posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @drkassorla: RT @ willrich45 : Scientific American's Special Report: Learning in the Digital Age buff.ly/1e46qSV #Edtech 29.07.2013 02.27.05 @bethrharris: Scientific American's Special Report: Learning in the Digital Age buff.ly/1e46qSV Good reading for context. #edchat 29.07.2013 02.24.55 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @willrich45: Scientific American's Special Report: Learning in the Digital Age buff.ly/1e46qSV Good reading for context. #edchat 29.07.2013 02.04.04 
4269	Yes	Alfred the Great (871-899) and Eadred (946-955) are the only Anglo-Saxon kings whose wills have survived to the present day, both of which are found in the same manuscript, British Library Additional MS 82931, known as the Liber de Hyda and a recent upload to our Digitised Manuscripts site. Opening... 
4270	Yes	 What work should we demand adequate compensation for, monetary and otherwise?  
4271	Yes	 hackeducation.com - audrey@hackeducation.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Sorry for the delay in posting this round-up of the week&rsquo;s education news. I spent the week in Maine with family (my mom turned 70), with limited access to the Internet. As always, you can stay up on the blogs that I&rsquo;m reading, via the News Elsewhere tab above or via this site&rsquo;s &ldquo;firehose&rdquo; Twitter account. While in Maine I was also incredibly fortunate to spend an afternoon with my hero Seymour Papert. I shared with him not just the outline of my book, Teaching Machines, but also my review un...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(4) @jafurtado: Hack Education Weekly News: The Cost of Common Core Tests and of Dissertation Embargoes,by @ audreywatters feedproxy.google.com/~r/HackEducati&hellip; 29.07.2013 02.05.25 @nancyrubin: Hack Education Weekly News: The Cost of Common Core Tests and of Dissertation Embargoes ow.ly/noPhA via @ hackeducation 29.07.2013 01.55.34 @jenebbeler: Hack Education Weekly News: The Cost of Common Core Tests and of Dissertation Embargoes dlvr.it/3k0YZM 29.07.2013 01.31.32 @EdwiredMills: Hack Education Weekly News: The Cost of the Common Core Tests and of Dissertation Embargoes hackeducation.com/2013/07/28/hac&hellip; 29.07.2013 01.18.04 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @audreywatters: Hack Education Weekly News: The Cost of the Common Core Tests and of Dissertation Embargoes hackeducation.com/2013/07/28/hac&hellip; 29.07.2013 01.12.35 
4272	Yes	 wired.co.uk - Duncan Geere 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;The British prime minister's internet filters will be about more than just hardcore pornography, according to information&nbsp;obtained by the Open Rights Group.The organisation, which campaigns for digital freedoms, has spoken to some of the Internet Service Providers that will be constructing Cameron's content filters. They discovered that a host of other categories of supposedly-objectionable material may be on the block-list.By: Duncan Geere,Continue reading... posted by friends: &nbsp;(1) @Rayabi: HAHA The UK censorwall is like a gremlin when wet. This thing is completely haywire, nonsensical and a disaster. wired.co.uk/news/archive/2&hellip; 28.07.2013 23.26.35 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(4) @digiphile: UK PM @ David_Cameron 's &quot;proposed filters extend to more than just porn&quot;-@ WiredUK : wired.co.uk/news/archive/2&hellip; Bears watching. HT @ HowardWeaver 28.07.2013 23.50.36 @howardweaver: Ugh, idiotic: Cameron's proposed filters extend to more than just porn bit.ly/19rcKGD 28.07.2013 23.47.03 @WiredUK: Eye-opening @ WiredUK story on what else will be excluded through proposed government internet filters wired.co.uk/news/archive/2&hellip; 28.07.2013 23.20.10 @jeffjarvis: Cameron's proposed filters extend to more than just porn (Wired UK) fb.me/1N8QlNYCc 28.07.2013 22.59.49 
4273	Yes	 gigaom.com - Om Malik 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Earlier this year I wrote that we have entered an era where every company is a technology company and technology is every company. Not a day goes by when the idea isn&rsquo;t reinforced by the headlines. Today, it is a mega-merger of ad-giants,&nbsp;Publicis Groupe of Paris, France and Omnicom of New York.A decade ago, a big ticket merger in advertising world wouldn&rsquo;t merit any attention in Silicon Valley, but we are living in a new and exciting times &nbsp;&ndash; media, content and technology are now in a sailor&rsquo;s&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @james3neal: &ldquo;@ Beet_TV : By @ OM - Why the mega merger of advertising giants Omnicom  Publicis impacts tech business gigaom.com/2013/07/28/why&hellip; via @ gigaom &rdquo; 29.07.2013 01.28.08 @jafurtado: Mobile OS loyalty: how iOS, Android and others stack up, by Erica Ogg /GigaOM gigaom.com/2013/07/28/why&hellip; 28.07.2013 20.37.17 @jafurtado: Why the mega merger of advertising giants Omnicom  Publicis impacts tech business,by Om Malick/GigaOM feeds.paidcontent.org/~r/pcorg/~3/Ta&hellip; via @ feedly 28.07.2013 20.24.21 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(2) @jeffjarvis: .@ om on ad monstermerger: Net's measurability=&quot;deflationary pressure on industries that've benefited from ambiguity&quot; gigaom.com/2013/07/28/why&hellip; 29.07.2013 00.06.13 @gigaom: Why the mega merger of advertising giants Omnicom  Publicis impacts tech business wp.me/p10LZV-2OYv 28.07.2013 19.23.03 
4274	Yes	 guardian.co.uk - Matthew Taylor, Ben Quinn 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Police say man arrested on suspicion of harassment offences, after shadow minister criticises Twitter's response to abuseA 21-year-old man has been arrested by police investigating a sustained barrage of threats and abuse directed against a feminist campaigner on Twitter after she successfully campaigned for a woman's picture to be put on a new banknote.Caroline Criado-Perez has faced a deluge of hostile tweets, including threats to rape and kill her, prompting the shadow home secretary, Yvet...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @fleming77: Man held after banknote campaigner receives rape threats on Twitterguardian.co.uk/uk-news/2013/j&hellip;via @ guardian 29.07.2013 01.08.32 @DonnaLanclos: Man arrested for rape/death threats to Caroline Criado-Perez on twitter in response to women on banknote campaign: guardian.co.uk/uk-news/2013/j&hellip; 28.07.2013 23.01.26 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(4) @neilhimself: Good. RT @ annwitbrock : @ neilhimself police have responded guardian.co.uk/uk-news/2013/j&hellip; This is how it must go. It is serious. 28.07.2013 23.37.57 @Suw: Man held after banknote campaigner receives rape threats on Twitter gu.com/p/3hj9p/tw 28.07.2013 23.31.15 @iangadd: Man arrested for rape/death threats to Caroline Criado-Perez on twitter in response to women on banknote campaign: guardian.co.uk/uk-news/2013/j&hellip; 28.07.2013 23.07.13 @guardiantech: Man held after banknote campaigner receives rape threats on Twitter bit.ly/16qL0N0 28.07.2013 23.00.51 
4275	Yes	 This is certainly a joke, but it&#8217;s funnier than the original: You probably remember KTVU’s royal eff up with reading obviously fake Asian names for the pilots of the Asiana crash. Names like “Wi To Lo” and “Ho Lee Fuk”. It looks like a Korean news agency is having some fun at KTVU’s expense. After the landing gear failure of the Southwest flight at LGA they showed this graphic with American pilot names “Captain Kent Parker Wright”, “Co-Captain Wyatt Wooden Workman”. They even went as far as making up fake names for people to interview. Flight instructor “Heywood U. Flye-Moore” and skeptical passenger “Macy Lawyers”. Well played Korean TV, well played. Korean News Station Pokes Fun at KTVU with Fake American Pilot Names After Southwest Airlines Landing Gear Failure « slothed . 
4276	Yes	 I had the honour and privilege of presenting at the Victorian Tactile Imagination Conference held at Birkbeck, University of London from July 19-20th.&nbsp; It is an understatement to say that never was a conference more perfect and attuned to my research and scholarship.The conference was amazing, with so many scholars part of a new wave of sensory studies becoming more pervasive in English, philosophy, anthropology, and history departments. Time and again, I heard echoes of my own work which made me happy to know that there is such a great community of scholars out there. &nbsp;Academics at all stages, from the always mind-blowing (and perpetually gracious) Dame Gillian Beer, to early-career scholars (such as myself) and graduate students, presented papers on topics ranging from sculptures to textiles, literature to artifacts. It was a very rewarding experience and I had the opportunity to make connections with many great people both in England and in the US.&nbsp;It was also a very rewarding experience for me because it was my first time overseas. For those who know what a big part Mrs. Dalloway and Michael Cunningham’s The Hours play in my life (academic and otherwise), to be able to attend a conference and stay in Bloomsbury was a dream come true. The only way the trip could possibly have been better is if I had time to stay a few more days and actually make it to Haworth (but that will be another trip for another time).Walking around London, specifically around Bloomsbury in the early morning and late evening, evoked the particular type of haunting of space that really spoke to the sensory imagination mentioned time and again at the conference. Being a flaneuse in this new found space was particularly life altering (I know big claim but let me finish). &nbsp;I have lived in the same city for 20 years. I have in that time lived in various parts of the city but always geographically to the north or the east. When you live in the same space for that amount of time, your senses become dull to your environment, things become familiar, perhaps too familiar, and you don’t necessarily take the time to appreciate your surroundings with the same intensity that you did when you first moved. Bloomsbury was breath-takingly beautiful, not only because of the age of some of the structures but how green space as a lived space is seamlessly present in the fabric of everyday life. Knowing that you may be walking in the same place where an author you have studied and revered has walked a hundred years ago is pretty exhilarating. &nbsp;The tactile residue of their presence (which I refer to as “tactile memory” in my work), is inspiring for someone like me who has a strong interest in academic architecture.&nbsp;At the south-west corner of Gordon Square I had a real moment, where I had to stop and wonder, how much has this changed geographically in 100 years? What remains of this space that inspired those who walked it daily? Ultimately the knowledge that I was leaving my own small trace here, my own tactile residue, by touching trees, seeing what others have seen, gave me much to contemplate. This was reinforced when my best friend and fellow academic mentioned that she had been in those exact places and encountered and interacted with those exact spaces during her research trip there a year ago.&nbsp;Layers upon layers, traces of presence and being. I know pretty heavy for a blog post, but I did say it was life altering so I had to back that claim up with metaphysics. I am taking my very brief (I can’t believe I was only in London for 5 days) trip and making the most of it now that I am back. I have many deadlines looming before the end of August and much work to be done (I start teaching fall term on September 3rd and my summer term ends August 15th) but I have returned to this place that I have lived for 20 years with a new set of sensory experiences. I now walk my neighbourhood noticing the Edwardian architecture. However, I also notice the lack of history. This city was only incorporated in 1834. It does not have the sense of presence and being I felt in London (saw Queen Elizabeth I at Westminster…Elizabeth the first!, a far cry from a William Lyon McKenzie or an Allan Lamport, though they were goodly mayors).On my fridge is a picture of the south-west corner of Gordon Square. I look at it at least a dozen times a day and think of the feelings it gives me and what those feelings in turn will inspire me to accomplish.&nbsp; Rather I “see” that picture and not merely look. For I now truly know what Ruskin meant when he said:“A man who can see, understands a touch, a man who cannot, misunderstands an oration” ( Modern Painters ) ( Works 7.466). 
4277	Yes	What sort of events are suitable for first-person historical interpretationIn July of 1946, two black couples were lynched by white vigilantes near Moore's Ford Bridge in Georgia. One of the men, Roger Malcolm, had been accused of stabbing a white man in a fight. A group of 15-20 men, led by "a big man who was dressed mighty proud in a double-breasted brown suit," stopped a car in broad daylight, forced out the two couples inside, tied them&nbsp;to a tree alongside the road, and shot them approximately sixty times. One victim, George Dorsey, was a U.S. Army veteran recently back from the Second World War. Another, Dorothy Malcolm was seven months pregnant. Though the identity of the lynchers was quickly established, a grand jury failed to act, and the murderers were never brought to justice.For the past seven years, a biracial group called the Moore's Ford Memorial Committee has done a historic reenactment of the lynching. I am awestruck at the moral courage that it must require to do this. Warning--this is hard thing to watch:&nbsp; Like a lot of public historians I have mixed feelings about first-person reenactments. Done well, first-person interpretation can take the visitor back in time and give them the opportunity to interact with history like no other interpretive strategy. Badly done first-person interpretation is far more common and really painful to experience .What is happening at Moore's Creek, though, falls outside of the normal categories--it is reenactment as a political act. A newspaper report describes it as "equal parts theater and chilling lesson in Georgia history," &nbsp;That is not exactly right, however. This is historical reenactment as protest. The reenactors are not only seeking recognition of what happened, they are demanding justice. Some of the murderers may still be alive in the Moore's Creek area, and this reenactment takes place right under their noses. Some of the participants explain their motivations in this video: Another article about the reenactment here . Are there similar politically-motivated reenactments of historical crimes out there? This is a fascinating phenomena.&nbsp;(First video via Kevin Levin at Civil War Memory .)
4278	Yes	 buzzfeed.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt; posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @knash13: This is HILARIOUS: 30 Things Librarians Love owl.li/nkHci Why yes. I DO love being a better search engine than Google! 28.07.2013 21.32.37 @kristamccracken: This is HILARIOUS: 30 Things Librarians Love owl.li/nkHci Why yes. I DO love being a better search engine than Google! 28.07.2013 20.26.45 @CathrynPearce: Sunday is library day: 30 things librarians love bit.ly/1aGIkOo 28.07.2013 17.08.55 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4279	Yes	 hastac.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(4) @DanielPaulOD: &quot;The Arts  Humanities in the Workplace: Why Great Leaders are Joinng the Dialogue&quot; | HASTAC - s.shr.lc/13po2Tr via @ Shareaholic 29.07.2013 00.40.47 @readywriting: &quot;The Arts  Humanities in the Workplace: Why Great Leaders are Joinng the Dialogue&quot; | HASTAC hastac.org/blogs/henselec&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.28.53 @Jason_M_Kelly: &quot;The Arts  Humanities in the Workplace: Why Great Leaders are Joinng the Dialogue&quot; hastac.org/blogs/henselec&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.28.12 @CathyNDavidson: &quot;The Arts  Humanities in the Workplace: Why Great Leaders are Joinng the Dialogue&quot; | HASTAC hastac.org/blogs/henselec&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.25.07 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4280	Yes	 criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt; posted by friends: &nbsp;(4) @icpetrie: @ tcarmody Which of these did you use? (My supervisor at Penn was a big fan of The Dialectic) criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 29.07.2013 01.38.16 @the_wrangler: I gesture toward things, therefore I am. RT @ KarlSteel : Grad school training in humanities, distilled into one page: criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 29.07.2013 00.05.16 @tcarmody: The dialectic  tiny dialectic = key RT @ KarlSteel : Grad school training in the humanities, distilled into one page: criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 28.07.2013 23.13.49 @JonathanHsy: Grad school training in the humanities, distilled into one page: criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 28.07.2013 22.56.36 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(2) @harrisj: The dialectic  tiny dialectic = key RT @ KarlSteel : Grad school training in the humanities, distilled into one page: criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 28.07.2013 23.24.22 @KarlSteel: Grad school training in the humanities, distilled into one page: criticalhandgestures.tumblr.com 28.07.2013 20.41.57 
4281	Yes	 touch.latimes.com posted by friends: &nbsp;(5) @S_moores: Some interesting numbers from the SJSU  Udacity partnership: $40/$110 respectively for the pilot program. touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.48.58 @ncecire: Wow: of $150 paid by SJSU students to take a Udacity course for credit, the university kept $40 and Udacity, $110. touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.20.15 @jenebbeler: previous quote from a left coast op-ed touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 21.59.16 @jenebbeler: #MOOC &quot;proponents vastly overvalue the tools provided by the online platform and treat the content...as a commodity.&quot; touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 21.45.24 @gafsari: Not sure I buy that &quot;online education is seen today as the answer to virtually every problem facing higher education&quot; bit.ly/12vjqkz 28.07.2013 21.41.18 @foundhistory: #MOOC &quot;proponents vastly overvalue the tools provided by the online platform and treat the content...as a commodity.&quot; touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 21.32.59 @foundhistory: &quot;the services [ #MOOC providers] offer resemble the product of a business model more than an educational model&quot; touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 21.30.17 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(3) @edwebb: Wow: of $150 paid by SJSU students to take a Udacity course for credit, the university kept $40 and Udacity, $110. touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.22.50 @betajames: Wow: of $150 paid by SJSU students to take a Udacity course for credit, the university kept $40 and Udacity, $110. touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.22.08 @mariabustillos: Wow: of $150 paid by SJSU students to take a Udacity course for credit, the university kept $40 and Udacity, $110. touch.latimes.com/#section/-1/ar&hellip; 28.07.2013 22.09.39 
4282	Yes	 Since this is now my personal Xanga/livejournal/Myspace page -- and because the recommendations on the podcast thread were so exquisite I'm already listening to them while packing -- I thought it wouldn't hurt to ask. I'm planning on doing 10 hours days from Corona to El Paso and then El Paso to Houston, so I don't want to stop for a long lunch -- nor will the three howling cats in my rented SUV -- so places I can call in advance and eat on the way would be preferred. I've been looking online for such places, but they're either far too fancy, which will kill my cats, or they're perfect but have been recently burned down. I shit you not: four of the five places that initially excited me have burned down in the past few months. So ... recommendations? Including on the drive itself, places to stay that are cat-friendly, etc. Basically any recommendation you have that doesn't amount to " DON'T BE DEAF YOU ANNOYING LITTLE COCKSUCKER ." (Which, when you think about it, is probably The Donalde's way of saying he's going to miss me when I'm gone. Not enough to stop sexually harassing his students, but enough to feel a pang above his waistline when he does so, you know, in the part of his brain where shame ought to live.) 
4283	Yes	Kline and Perdue&#8217;s A Guide to Documentary Editing is now online and open access &#8212; that is, it&#8217;s no longer tied to having purchased a paper edition of the text. They note: &#8220;For the first time, users of the Guide will be able to do full-text searching of its contents as well as move freely [...]
4284	Yes	 (via Paula Deen’s Cook Tells of Slights, Steeped in History &#8211; NYTimes.com ) via http://jmjafrx.tumblr.com/post/56712054922 Tagged: tumblings 
4285	Yes	 No big surprises here, but this blog post does a good job explaining why doing well on multiple choice questions does not prepare students for college. I took this sample AP test and Googled the 40 questions exactly as written. It took about 2 seconds to find the answers – and that was checking a couple of pages to verify the answers. Thirty-five of the 40 questions were easily answered this way. The other five required information from a chart or photo. I asked the students at Carleton to find the answers to a couple of these questions. Obviously, they had the same result. The students, many of whom had taken plenty of AP classes, were shocked. The professors were very amused. A few weeks after this, I had the opportunity to talk with a history professor at Oberlin College, and asked him what he thought about this and AP in general. He said that they often need to reteach students how to read and study history when they arrive at Oberlin. Students who have been through AP classes are geared to read for minutae and minor detail. They haven’t been taught to read for concepts, context and the big picture. &#8211; My Wired Life . 
4286	Yes	The meaning of JK Rowling's attempt at pseudonymous authorship. &mdash; I did a Twitter-series on this topic this morning, and here's the Storified version of it for posterity. [View the story "Rowling and Galbraith, Strangers" on Storify]... ( read more )
4287	Yes	 vintagenola : Ruins of Belle Grove Plantation &#8211; 1938 Tagged: tumblings 
4288	Yes	Resignation beyond sorrow on the Facebook Platform and beyond &mdash; In recent weeks, Facebook has been sending emails imploring me to complete a survey about how they might improve their development platform. I'd been deleting the messages, but after the third request or so, I decided to click through. For those lucky enough to have avoided it, the Facebook Platform is a set of tools and services that allows developers to build software that lives atop or connects to Facebook. I've already got a good measure of existential dread built around Facebook as a platform, but the ongoing badgering burst my bile bubble. The first survey question asked "Why would... ( read more )
4289	Yes	 The idea that generations of Shakespeare scholars got it all wrong appeals to the Saturday morning &#8220;kids rule!&#8221; ethos, where the kids look into the camera and wink, adult authorities are easily duped, and the bad guys foreclosing on the pizza parlor can be thwarted by dumping a bucket of water on their legal documents. [T]here are zombie arguments, which can never be finally killed. No matter how often they are  you might think  overwhelmed by evidence to the contrary, these arguments find new advocates, are reanimated, get unsteadily to their feet, and stumble groggily onwards. A prime example of such a zombie is the denial that the plays of Shakespeare were written by William Shakespeare, and the accompanying claim that in fact they were written by Francis Bacon, or the Earl of Oxford, or Christopher Marlowe, or even Queen Elizabeth I. It&#8217;s worth just pausing for a moment, as we stand on the brink of an engagement with these assertions and before we have begun to consider their glaring weaknesses, to summarise the evidence for the straightforward view that William Shakespeare of Stratford wrote the plays attributed to him. &#8211; Standpoint . 
4290	Yes	 This summer, my family and I rented a lake house for a few weeks. We were excited to have a grill, and at first, we took serious advantage: burgers, chicken, kebobs, barbecue, etc. But we soon ran up against two problems: meat fatigue and a fridge full of leftovers. Between the two of us, my wife and I have a number of standby techniques for disposing of miscellaneous leftovers, but most (like frittatas and stir fry) require making the house even hotter with a hot stove. Pizza to the rescue! We got the idea early in our trip to try making pizza on the grill. It turned out so well that we ended up doing it a number of times. Not only was it a good way to get rid of just about any grilled leftovers, but it was legitimately good pizza in its own right &#8211; even when some of the ingredients we used were kinda cheap. Arriving at the best technique was the biggest challenge. I&#8217;ve described the process below. We had a propane grill, which was helpful for heat control, but you could do it with charcoal and it&#8217;d probably taste better. Get a dough &#8211; We got our doughs from the local pizza joint. You could make it yourself, but it&#8217;s a pain to make pizza dough, and so cheap to buy it. I&#8217;ve bought doughs from at least a half dozen pizzerias, and I&#8217;ve never paid more than $4 for a large one. As long as it&#8217;s a non-chain joint that does reasonable business, you know the dough will be fresh, and prepared with more expertise than if you&#8217;d done it yourself. (Some grocery stores sell pizza doughs. I&#8217;ve never bought one, so I can&#8217;t vouch &#8211; but I have noticed that they&#8217;re generally pretty small. Also, you can buy premade crusts, but is lame, as it takes away the biggest advantage of the grill, namely that it gets hot enough to cook a crust properly.) Get a large dough from a local pizzeria. Price: $2-4. Get the rest of your ingredients &#8211; You&#8217;ll need: Sauce &#8211; We used cheap jarred sauce. Plain crushed tomatoes would probably be even better. Once we made a pie with leftover pulled pork, and I used a thin layer of barbecue sauce instead. Cheese &#8211; We had our best results with Polly-O mozzarella, either grated large or cut into very thin strips/slices. The pre-shredded stuff is a big question mark &#8211; could be fine, but could be pretty dry (that is, too dry &#8211; good pizza cheese should be a bit dried). You can use another cheese as an accent, like a bit of goat cheese. Toppings &#8211; Whatever you have laying around. Once we made something pretty fancy (some chi-chi salami), but usually it was whatever meat and veggies we&#8217;d grilled the day before. If it&#8217;s a bit limp after sitting in the fridge, give it a quick saut before using. Fresh herbs are nice too. Oil &#8211; We used olive oil at a couple different points in the process, as described below. Get your mise en place together &#8211; I&#8217;m typically cavalier about getting stuff in place before cooking, but with grilled pizza it&#8217;s crucial. The steps below can be fast and furious, and you won&#8217;t have time to stumble drunkenly to the fridge to get ingredients. Get it together. High Life optional but recommended Preheat, clean, and oil the grill &#8211; Turn it up as high as it goes. The reason why you&#8217;re able to make decent pizza on the grill, but not in your oven, is because the grill gets a few hundred degrees hotter. Give it at least 15 minutes to get blazing hot (or more, depending on how your grill works). Make sure it&#8217;s clean and well-oiled, or your crust will stick and break. Stretch the dough &#8211; There are lots of ways to turn a ball of dough into something resembling a pizza. My preferred technique is to stretch it to a disc, then hold it vertically by the edge, letting the dough fall downward while stretching the cornicione a little bit. Keep turning and stretching, allowing gravity do most of the work but helping to keep a pretty uniform thickness. Basically, make the crust as big and thin as you can without breaking and without being too big for your grill. Almost ready to flip First grilling &#8211; It&#8217;s time to give a quick sear to what will end up being the top of the pizza. Lay the stretched dough on the grill. (It&#8217;s flexible, so now&#8217;s the time to make that circularish dough into a rectangularish shape, if that&#8217;s how your grill is shaped.) Brush the exposed side of the dough with olive oil. Then close the lid. Let it cook for maybe a minute, then check the upskirt. Once it&#8217;s charred to your liking, turn the burners all the way down &#8211; this&#8217;ll be important in a second. Use a big long spatula to make sure the whole crust is loose from the grill, and then use that same spatula (along with some tongs, or your hands) to flip the crust over. Upskirt (that&#8217;s a technical term) Post-flip Top the pizza &#8211; You&#8217;ve turned the burners way down, but the grates are still very hot. You&#8217;ll want to top the pizza as quickly as possible, so you can get the lid closed and the cheese melted before the bottom has a chance to burn. Brush the pie with oil. Then sauce and cheese &#8211; if you put the cheese down first, it melts a little better, but it&#8217;s harder to then spread the sauce, so experiment to your liking. Then the toppings. It&#8217;s helpful to have two people working here, one doing the oil, the other following right behind with sauce, and so on. Topped and ready for the second cooking Let it cook &#8211; Close the lid and crank the heat up all the way again. Because the grill cooled a lot while you had it open to flip and top (when the heat was turned down), this second cooking will take a bit longer than the first. Check the pizza after two or three minutes. You&#8217;re looking for two things: the cheese should be adequately melted, and the bottom of the crust should look adequately done. If it seems like the crust is cooking too fast, turn down the heat. Voil Remove and dress &#8211; Get a platter, and use your big spatula to get the pizza off of the grill. Depending on size and thickness of crust, it should be pretty firm and easy to handle. This is when I like to dress with basil and a drizzling of oil. Some Parmasean or Romano cheese would also be good. Here are a few of the pies we made over the course of our stay: Click to view slideshow. Unless you&#8217;ve got a special oven made for cooking pizza in your kitchen, the technique described above is likely to get you the best home-cooked pizza you can make. It&#8217;s a cheap and delicious way to put leftovers to good use. Hop to it, before grilling season is over! Related posts: Totonno&#8217;s burns, Boone mourns Honeymoon barbecue, part 1: the West Eating barbecue is a good way to spend a vacation 
4291	Yes	 BreweryMap , a Google Maps mashup and mobile app, provides two main functions. The first is that it tells you where the nearest brewery is so that you'll never go thirsty again. The second and far more important function is that you can punch in two addresses, and BreweryMap tells you all the breweries that are on the way from point A to point B. Let your fantasy become a reality. Just make sure to spread out your trips. 
4292	Yes	 a little comic about the AHA embargo fiasco I am not an historian, nor a member of AHA, nor an early-stage scholar, nor a publisher, nor am I responsible for library acquisitions. But then, the same can be said of plenty of folk who have weighed in on the decision by the American Historical Association to release a statement allowing for (and by implication, perhaps, endorsing) the &#8220;embargo&#8221; of history dissertations. As Rick Anderson notes (in a Scholarly Kitchen post that provides a pretty strong overview), the AHA &#8220;smack[ed] the hornet&#8217;s nest.&#8221; I follow enough Digital Humanities and Open Access inclined historians on Twitter that this statement, and the furor that ensued, registered substantially throughout my feed. And over the past week or so, the discussion has trickled upwards to the usual suspects (and beyond! ) and sideways to other disciplines. At least it has to my own, based on listserv discussions and retweets. And it should spread, because it&#8217;s not just an issue for historians. Times for university presses and for academic libraries are tough all over, and that affects every discipline. As someone who routinely advises late-stage graduate students and untenured faculty, I think that the questions raised by the AHA statement are ones that everyone in the humanities should be thinking about, not just members of that particular organization. For a good cross-section of the various positions and issues, my best recommendation is Open History , a project that began as part of the backlash against the AHA statement, but one that I&#8217;ll be watching with interest. They&#8217;ve got a pretty thorough collection of the responses to date, and a mechanism for adding others (addressing a weakness of the link round-up posts I&#8217;ve seen). I&#8217;m thinking about using that &#8220;issue&#8221; in my DH course for next spring, incidentally. I have a couple of thoughts, neither of which necessarily addresses the core issues at play in the Statement or the responses to it. The first is that, put simply, I think discussions like these reveal their scale-free status, or at least raise the question of scale. As I&#8217;ve been sorting through what I want to do with my network rhetorics project, I&#8217;ve been returning to some of the terms and ideas that I&#8217;ve been taking for granted, and one of those is this idea of scale. We describe random networks as having scale whenyou can select any of the nodes and treat them as roughly representative of each of the nodes in the network; in other words, the behavior of a given node &#8220;scales up&#8221; as typical to the network itself. In a scale-free network, however, you can&#8217;t generalize from the behavior of a single node to the network. Easy enough, right? Whether we treat the system addressed by the AHA Statement as a single network, or see it as a set of overlapping networks of various stakeholders (graduate students, faculty, universities, publishers, libraries, et al.), those networks are scale-free, which makes framing any discussion problematic. Insofar as we can speak of a system here, it&#8217;s difficult for me to see any particular node or group of nodes as typical. I don&#8217;t think there are many among us in the academy who would be arrogant enough to describe their own writing process, hiring process(es), job histories, departmental and college relationships, publication records as typical of all of their colleagues , not in academia, their own field, nor even their own department. Part of how scale-free networks function is iterative&#8211;the status of a given network affects its future development. So, for example, highly trafficked websites are more likely to attract additional traffic&#8211;our experience of the web isn&#8217;t random (or scaled). Each stakeholder in this conversation has a variety of factors to balance, and the ratio among them is a decision that happens locally, based on circumstance, and that ratio necessarily shifts over time. I know that this sounds painfully self-evident (different Xs behave differently!), but you can see a certain amount of incommensurability that creeps into the discussion. We can&#8217;t speak in generalized terms about the policies of academic presses, so we push for specific evidence. But because those specifics don&#8217;t scale, they can never function beyond the level of anecdote, and ultimately make it more difficult to speak in generalized terms. I work in a field where perhaps the best-selling book of all time ( Cross-Talk in Comp Theory , now in its 3rd edition) is not published by a university press but a professional organization, 95% of which appeared in print prior to its inclusion in that volume, and is almost entirely available to anyone for free provided they have access to JSTOR. And that tells you exactly nothing about NCTE&#8217;s own editorial policies, much less the other presses in our field, much less academic presses in general. In the absence of representative anecdotes, what can be done? Do arguments like this get to a point where we should just throw up our hands? Not really. I do think, though, that at a certain point, networks of arguments hit a threshold where incommensurability sets in. When that happens, a different kind of argument takes place. And maybe this is my second point: lemons are to lemonade as scale-free arguments are to scale (as in &#8220;when life gives you X, you make Y&#8221;). While a number of people have responded to the AHA Statement as a particular kind of intervention (endorsing a rapidly deteriorating and increasingly obsolete model of scholarly communication), I wonder if it&#8217;s more appropriate to think of it as an attempt to introduce scale into the discussion, to establish some kind of baseline that allows us to say certain things about the typical behavior of that system. Bear with me. It&#8217;s an imperfect analogy, to be sure, but think about professional sports, and the effects achieved through salary caps. It&#8217;s still hard to speak of the typical franchise in, say, the NBA (the Celtics and Lakers are not representative, e.g.), but a salary cap mitigates the scale-free quality of the network of franchises, allowing Oklahoma City to compete with Los Angeles, even if the two take very different approaches to team development, talent acquisition, etc. Even though teams may appear to ignore the cap (hello, Brooklyn!), the penalties for doing so are not insubstantial (increased luxury taxes, the inability to sign players for more than the league minimum, etc.), and can&#8217;t be maintained indefinitely. The salary cap doesn&#8217;t homogenize the league nor guarantee any sort of sustained success for a franchise, but it does level the field in terms of opportunity. There are still strategies and tactics involved, but there&#8217;s sufficient scale in the network (we might argue) to allow every team to compete. Part of the AHA Statement, then, is about scale: all graduates should be able to choose what to do with their dissertations. In this sense, the AHA Statement isn&#8217;t so far away from guidelines offered by the MLA regarding the value of digital work : Institutions and departments should develop written guidelines so that faculty members who create, study, and teach with digital objects; engage in collaborative work; or use technology for pedagogy can be adequately and fairly evaluated and rewarded. The written guidelines should provide clear directions for appointment, reappointment, merit increases, tenure, and promotion and should take into consideration the growing number of resources for evaluating digital scholarship and the creation of born-digital objects. If your department or discipline falls under the MLA umbrella, then this provides a pretty clear statement about the importance and value of digital work&#8211;whether or not every single department follows this Statement to the letter, MLA provides a baseline for the responsible evaluation of tenure/promotion cases that include such work. It doesn&#8217;t say, however, that you should not be tenured unless you do such work, or that folks who don&#8217;t work digitally are less likely to be tenured. If I were forced to name the difference between these two sets of claims, perhaps I&#8217;d call them policy statements and position statements. The MLA here is setting policy, or at least offering a Statement that itself can be adopted and adapted to policy on the local level. Where the hornet&#8217;s nest gets smacked with the AHA Statement, I think, is precisely those moments when it drifts away from policy towards position: an increasing number of university presses are reluctant to offer a publishing contract to newly minted PhDs whose dissertations have been freely available via online sources&#8230;.online dissertations that are free and immediately accessible make possible a form of distribution that publishers consider too widespread to make revised publication in book form viable&#8230; I don&#8217;t think it&#8217;s particularly controversial to note that, if your interest is in crafting policy, the phrase &#8220;tangible threat&#8221; is not the best choice. If nothing else, that phrase alone functions deictically, calling attention to the specific circumstances surrounding the Statement and inviting the polarization that occurred in response. It treats those circumstances not as variable or conditional (which they surely are, if others&#8217; responses are to be trusted), but as given. And it turns the policy into an outgrowth of a position that is conjectural (and which proved to be controversial). I don&#8217;t know if I&#8217;d go so far as to say that it&#8217;s simply a matter of tone, but it&#8217;s hard for me to imagine that there would have been nearly as much outcry, if the Statement had presented the policy as a necessary update given the shifts in scholarly communication/technology. I think that the case (and the policy) could have been made without implying that OA advocates&#8217; beliefs constitute a (tangible!) threat to their newer colleagues. If I were to put a bow on this, I think I&#8217;m slowly articulating an idea for myself about network rhetorics: this notion of making an argument to scale is something that I find coming up again and again, one that only really emerges with clarity when you think about arguments ecologically or as networked. I still don&#8217;t quite have the vocabulary for it yet, but most networks don&#8217;t occupy either the random or the scale-free end of the spectrum; they&#8217;re semi-scaled, maybe, and maybe I&#8217;m thinking about scale as a consequence of rhetoric. That may be the next puzzle piece for me as I work on my next book. I wish I had a witty remark to insert here about my failure to embargo this post, but let your imagination run wild&#8230; That&#8217;s all. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
4293	Yes	 Two weeks ago, I had the privilege to teach a three-hour workshop titled &#8220; Nonprofits Social Media Toolbox &#8221; for the annual Cal State Fullerton (my employer) Summer School for Nonprofits . The workshop provided an overview of some of the innovative social tools available to nonprofits, and showcased innovative social media examples by nonprofits. One session of the workshop focused on how nonprofits (and not-for-profits) can make good use of Instagram. Following is a still-evolving Storify I pulled together for the workshop and embedded into my corresponding workshop guide . I continue to add good examples as I find them, so be sure to subscribe to my Storify if this topic is of interest to you. View the story &#8220;Social Media for Nonprofits: Instagram&#8221; on Storify 
4294	Yes	 This post began as thank you to Folasade Adeoso for allowing me to use an image she created as my Twitter cover image (@jmjafrx) and as the Diaspora Hypertext, the Blog icon . But it became something more as I reflected on why a post like that was necessary and on what it means to make media and scholarship in the presence of and in the shadow of power. What does it mean for me to ask permission, to receive it, to attribute ideas to their proper owners? To make sure every blog post carries citations or credit for any images, quotes, and screen captures? Artist-thinkers from Bettina Judd to Moya Bailey to Katherine McKittrick have discussed the politics of citation before . Adeoso discussed some of the same herself in her interview with OkayAfrica : One thing thats so sad about tumblr is that credits get lost. Im learning: I keep the original photoshopped file; I set up my tumblr page; Im owning this. I made this image of Grace Jones, using the Bulletproof album cover which I cropped. One day I went on tumblr and this image had like 2000 reblogs, and I would never had known! People dont understand, it hurts! I probably didnt sleep all night because I was making that and you just took it and put it on your blog. Like Erykah Badu said, Im an artist and Im sensitive about my shit. [The person apologized  added a credit] Read the rest of the interview here . Tumblr is my preferred blogging platform and what she said resonated with me. It&#8217;s the LatiNegr@s Project home base and where I&#8217;m trying to build the Codex . But tension around politics of citation, especially where it involves women and genderqueer people of color, social media, and proper attribution has flared white hot for weeks now. These politics were on display, again, just a couple weeks ago when Genie Lauren ( @MoreandAgain ) created a petition to stop Juror B37&#8242;s book deal, posting the name and phone number of her literary agent on Twitter . The offer was rescinded, but the event was reported by major media sites like BuzzFeed as though the book deal ended because of a near spontaneous decision made by the Juror B37 &#8211;not as though Lauren played a significant, activist role in having the offer pulled. More recently, in an article for Gawker, Cord Jefferson plagirized, nearly word-for-word, analysis and wit by longtime Twitter wordsmith @thewayoftheid . When Jefferson and Gawker were confronted by @thewayoftheid on social media, their first response was to condescend to and denigrate both the accusation and the accuser. Tracy Clayton reported on the situation for The Root : &#8220;Whoever was manning Gawker&#8217;s Twitter account shot down the accusation, calling it &#8220; bulls&#8211;t .&#8221; They went on to counteraccuse the Twitterer of plagiarism, and Gawker writer Rich Juzwiak joined in the fray , screaming about how nobody knows who @TheWayOfTheId is. (I guess because big news outlets never take from smaller nameless content producers?)&#8221; [The storify referenced is available here courtesy of Imani Gandy (@AngryBlackLady on Twitter and Senior Legal Analyst at RH Reality Check)] Politics of citation are coming up again and again and again as big media triangulates with social media and the intellectual genius of woc and qpoc on the internet. The appropriation of ideas across the internet requires the willful unseeing of non-white voices online&#8211;making it clear that yes, in fact, racism does still exist, even on the internet . This willful unseeing is made even more possible through a racialized condescension toward and demeaning of the way woc and qpoc interact online . Cursing, twerking, yelling (writing in all caps) or using shorthand internet slang, snarking in 140 character bursts&#8211;our dozens are fun, sexy, and intellectual only to the extent we stay in our lane (referencing pop culture or very current events like #PaulaDeanDishes). But it isn&#8217;t seen as serious work. The very act of inhabiting social media sites like Twitter or Tumblr, as opposed to writing for a major publication or hosting a blog (or teaching in a classroom) seems to give big media sites and other readers/watchers/lurkers permission to dismiss those speaking/tweeting/Tumbling as though they have nothing worthwhile to say even as their labor is subsumed by others more credentialed, capitalized, with bigger megaphones. Even among digital humanists, with notable exceptions like Chris Long ( @cplong ), social media is seen as a means to an end or a fun corollary to more serious #dh work like databasing or coding. Social media is fun but it is also labor. It is how I (and many others) engage the digital humanities. It is time-consuming and messy, often vulgar and full of typos. That doesn&#8217;t mean it doesn&#8217;t deserve proper acknowledgement or isn&#8217;t intellectual. Social media or otherwise, attribution is a baseline for scholarly production and should be a baseline for online interaction. Providing footnotes, requesting permission, and adding citations isn&#8217;t difficult. It isn&#8217;t time consuming. It does require forethought and a recognition that there is real work behind everything found on the internet. It means acknowledging a politics of citation, of discussing, sharing, attributing work is always at play when we share online and in the midst of those politics some voices are always rendered invisible . It means challenging internalized assumptions&#8211;likely imported from &#8216;real life&#8217; and the way society privileges politics created in the classroom, the boardroom, and the senate chamber over the corner, the barber shop, or the laundromat&#8211;about where knowledge is being created online and the role social media plays in intellectual production. And for those of us blogging and sharing as academics, it requires a determination to face down our own ability to oppress and silence even in our most well-meaning discussions. When I discussed #femfuture in a previous post , I wrote a coda to academic feminists. That coda was also meant to ping academic bloggers in general, especially those making media related to black history and Atlantic slavery. We deal in memory and policy as often as we deal in archive, marking and remarking on territory soaked in blood but covered over in wet cement. We have an obligation to ask ourselves, daily, hourly, and by the Twitter bird minute, &#8220;Why and for whom do you work (online)?&#8221; Tagged: accountability , blogging , methodology 
4295	Yes	 gonebut : On the occasion of the 107th anniversary of the marriage ofLon W. Colvert and Caroline http://wp.me/s3c4UM-745 View Post Tagged: tumblings 
4296	Yes	 The job posting below is from the Code4Lib email list.  The Getty Research Institute (GRI) seeks a creative, technology-groundedperson with a background in art history and/or computer science toconceptualize, advise, and coordinate digital humanities projects andcollection digitization projects. Reporting to the GRIDeputy Director, the position will interact with a diverse range ofcollaborators including resident scholars, curators, research staff,librarians, technologists, and external partners to increase access tocollections, develop new tools for using digital collections, and facilitateoriginal art-historical research using digital resources. The Digital Humanities Specialist will recommend strategic directions,participate in prioritizing projects, research and recommend new technologies,track advancements in the field, manage project teams, and collaborate withexternal partners. Responsibilities: Coordinate and/or lead cross-functional digital humanities project teams and collection digitization teams comprised of internal and external partners. Work in close partnership with the Manager of Digital Services, the Head of Digital Art History, and the Digital Library Steering Committee; monitor and document projects from initiation through completion, interfacing with internal and/or external partners on content, administrative, and technical matters; plan and direct schedules; monitor project budgets; recruit and supervise project staff, interns, and volunteers; oversee the production of all project-related communication and outreach including reports, presentations, and announcements.Organize GRI-wide discussions to select and prioritize digital projects; participate in various committees devoted to advancing and executing the institution&#8217;s digital initiatives; document the institution&#8217;s policies and procedures.Work with scholars conducting digital humanities projects and accessing digital collections.Collaborate in the production of digital publications and other scholarly products.Provide professional expertise and services while leveraging the knowledge and skills of others.Monitor and track advancements in the field; research and recommend new technologies; build networks between the GRI and other digital humanities centers.Seek external funding for projects, as appropriate.Coordinate activities closely with GRI Leadership, Digital Services, Library Departments, Digital Art History, the Scholar Program, GRI Research Projects, GRI Publications, Library Information Systems, and Collection Development.Conduct research and collect data, as required.Develop new competencies among staff and expand institutional knowledge of current and emerging best practices, tools, and standards for digital humanities projects, digital collections creation and management, and digital preservation. Qualifications: Bachelor&#8217;s degree; Master&#8217;s degree preferred8 to 10 years of project/process management and subject area experience, preferably in an art-related organizationRelevant foreign language knowledge preferred for academic-based projects Brought to you by code4lib jobs: http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/9257/ 
4297	Yes	 John Nelson of IDV Solutions strung together satellite imagery for dramatic animated GIFs . Having spent much of my life living near the center of that mitten-shaped peninsula in North America, I have had a consistent seasonal metronome through which I track the years of my life. When I stitch together what can be an impersonal snapshot of an entire planet, all of the sudden I see a thing with a heartbeat. I can track one location throughout a year to compare the annual push and pull of snow and plant life there, while in my periphery I see the oscillating wave of life advancing and retreating, advancing and retreating. And I'm reassured by it. 
4298	Yes	 Thefollowing is a guest post from Angela Cox, a graduate student inEnglish at the University of Arkansas. You can follow her on twitter at @KQscholar . She previously wrote for Play the Past on Space Quest . The very title of the Age of Empires series invites postcolonial readings. Reading real-time strategy (RTS) games from postcolonial frames is nothing new: on this blog, for instance, Trevor and Rebecca have both discussed Colonization ; in the journal Game Studies , Tuur Ghys has suggested that, as a genre, historical RTS games tend to reduce history into a consistent progressive narrative of determinism. Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings and its expansion The Conquerors is complicit with colonial interests in the usual ways: gameplay includes the same sort of technology trees employed in the first Age of Empires game, which Ghys examined in detail, and the conquest-centered gameplay celebrates the colonizers perspective over that of the colonized. The list of available civilizations, from the Standard Campaign menu with The Conquerors loaded. (Screenshot obtained using FRAPS) However, I want to use an extension of postcolonial theory, and argue that not only does Age of Empires II ( AoEII ) position itself clearly in a Euro-centric perspective of the past, in so doing it also inscribes present identities onto past identities, constructing past peoples as a cultural other in the same way that synchronous societies can construct each other as other. In the present time, we have consistently constructed the period we call medieval as an other to our modernity, just as during the time of the British empire the so-called Orient was constructed as an other for the West (see Edward Saids book Orientalism ). This othering of time often seems victimless, but it often perpetuates old stereotypes and colonial damage under the guise of research and historicity. In AoEII , the othering of time, which constructs in the game a timeless view of the medieval that is familiar in its construction to the conventional setting of many fantasy and historical narratives, is perpetuated largely through two mechanisms: tokenism and the deployment of uncritical research to establish authority. Tokenism here means creating a display of multiculturalism and cultural sensitivity by including surface features from a number of cultures, but failing to engage in the complexities of cultural interaction in a meaningful way. In AoEII , this appears in the seemingly diverse list of civilizations that the player can choose from, but which make only minimal impact on gameplayeach civilization comes with a token special unit, a civilization bonus of some kind (the Celts in AoEII , for instance, retain sheep more easily, playing into countless stereotypes about Celtic cultures and their relationships with sheep), and, in later ages, customized appearances for buildings. Aside from the language in which units respond, though, there is no noticeable difference to the player if he starts the game as the Britons or as the Japanese. Ttokenism can be dismissed by arguing that the need for balanced play between the civilizations (and for streamlining the amount of data in the game) outweighs the need for nuance and results in a template civilization with small customizations. The game compensates for this in the written documents that accompany gameplayin narrative introductions for scenarios, for instance, or the history section accessible from the main menu that allows the player to read up on (the games interpretations of) the history of each civilization and on medieval culture and warfare in general (by which the game generally means Western European). These displays of research establish AoEII s authority; the game trades on historical simulation for appeal. But all this historical matter is presented uncritically, without citation or acknowledgement of debate, giving the impression that the history is undisputed fact, common knowledge, and exists without cultural imprint. It is an authoritative voice in the game without apology. Such a presentation works, though, because popular culture values that the research is displayed in such a game; the audience of the game does not value the same trappings that academic history would be presented with. This is an environment where historical material is not sorted or criticized, but merely amassed into a clear narrative. What is valued is the wealth rather than the quality of the research, the presentation of it rather than the provenance of it. The tokenism and display of research serve in part to recognize that there are distinctions between the civilizations represented in AoEII and its expansion, but at the same time erase certain cultural identities. In particular, by using the Britons as to represent any of the various peoples who could, at various times, be called British, the game effectively erases the identities of those that have historically been marginalized in Great Britain. Architecture, Units, and Language The overall design and appearance of the game enforce a Western worldview; the main menu screen, for instance, depicts Tudor architecture and conventionally European trappings of knighthood: heraldic shields, Western blacksmith anvils, and so forth. The history screens are framed with parchment-like design, and sepia sketches in a Western art style depicting European nobility and warfare in most cases. The opening video sequences depict western European castles and warfare. In gameplay itself, the ages and the technology trees depict conventional divisions from European history, and the non-European civilizations are shoe-horned into this gameplay model without apology. Thus, regardless of whatever ages might be germane to a given society, they are nevertheless given a Dark Age followed by a Feudal Age, a Castle Age, and finally an Imperial Age. Figure 3: The very European looking main menu screen The game further erases cultural distinctions in having most of the human units look the same (see Figure 4). Buildings all look the same in the Dark Age, suggesting that there are primitive phases in every society that are culturally identicalor even completely without cultural identity. This, in turn, suggests that civilizations that have not advanced (as the game calls it) to at least what the game considers the Feudal Age, according to the games deterministic sense of history, have no culture to speak of. In the later ages, buildings have distinction, and the technology trees open up special units for gameplay according to the selected civilization, but even these distinctions are severely limited. There are not as many visual customizations as there are civilizations, so that the buildings in some civilizations are identical to those in others. This can be particularly egregious when the game groups civilizations together that, in actual history, have contentious margins in which there is cultural conflict. For instance, the Japanese, Chinese, and Korean buildings use the same sequence of visual development, erasing distinctions between these East Asian cultures, as do the buildings for the Britons and the Celtsboth of which take a strikingly English appearance (see Figure 4). Figure 4 &#8211; A comparison of the town center building and peasant units in four selected civilizations in AoEII. Note that the snow effect is an artifact of terrain effects, and the colors are artifacts of player positions. Additionally, each civilizations units respond in spoken languages that are intended to be characteristic of the civilizations being played. These are mostly modern languages as now spoken in the regions that the civilizations are supposed to have occupied. Thus, the Franks speak modern French, a romance language, even though they are, in many instances in the game, intended to represent the Germanic Franks. Although the Celts are called upon to represent the Scottish in the campaigns, they speak modern Irish, conflating the group of cultures that we now call Celtic. The exception to this modern language according to geography paradigm is the Britons. Because the game is set in a medievalized setting, it might break the suspension of disbelief for these units to respond in modern English, and the game would risk casual players accusing it of not having done research. To compensate for the problem of the popular conception of historicity, the game has them speak, according to a Microsoft website , Middle Englishwhich is here a mix of Old English, Latin, and Middle English (or Anglo-Norman). This portrayal is especially problematic because the term Britons does not properly refer to the people who spoke Old English, which would be the Anglo-Saxons and who (as the history section of the game acknowledges) came to Britain later than the Britons; Middle English is the language of the Normans and the Anglo-Saxons that the Normans conquered more than the Britons, who by this point have been twice marginalized. But what is important to the game is not that the language be accurate (which they are not; the translations are also dubious), but rather that it sound right to the audience. It is a conspicuous display of research and multiculturalism rather than accurate or critical research. Critical or rigorous research in the game would actually diminish the authority of the game because the game would not then match the comfortable centralized perspectives of the modern, western audience of the game. The Euro-centric medievalization is comfortable and authentic to the audience because it is comfortableit keeps the medieval as safely other, an identity that the player can comfortably enter without challenging his own identity as modern, and does not present any counternarratives that assert distinct identities for the historical peoples whose names and stories are appropriated for the game. In the case of the language of the Britons units, the cultural harm done here is that it effectively erases the identity of the Britons and subsumes it into the identity of the peoples who later conquered them, even when portrayed pre-conquest, as in the case of having them speak Middle English; furthermore, because the game lacks the cultures that would actually speak Middle English or Old English, the Britons are forced to stand in for them in campaigns merely because of geographic proximity. Campaigns Of course, the game cannot include every civilization, and the lack of Saxons or Normans would not be noteworthy were it not for the fact that so many of the campaigns are based on historical events in the history of Englandbut not necessarily of the Britonsso that the apparent attempt at decentralizing Englands role as empire-builder actually backfires and forces colonized civilizations to stand in for England in these simulations. Thus, William Wallace leads the modern Irish-speaking Celts in rebellion against the Britons, and (in the expansion) William of Normandy leads the Franks against the Goths and the Vikings at Hastings. The narration that introduces the campaigns supplies the historically correct civilization names, although, like most of the narration text in the game, it does so in a conventionally accepted Anglo-centric perspective. In the opening narration for the Battle of Hastings campaign, the first two panels read: Mercenaries and Norman knights look dubiously at the ships that wobble in the black, fog-choked sea. What man is this Duke William to put so many horses on leaky transports? William ignores their questioning glances and stares across the channel in the direction of England. Edward the Confessor is dead and now three men claim rulership of England. Harold he Saxon sits on the English throne and even now hastens to fortify his shores against two invasions. Here, the Normans and Saxons are accounted for in their historical roles. But, because of the limitations of the available civilizations in the game, when the actual gameplay starts there are no Normans or Saxonsthere are instead Franks and Goths, respectively. Figure 6 &#8211; The civilizations used in the Battle of Hastings scenario. Note the lack of Saxons and Normans. (Note also that the player&#8217;s name substitutes for the name of William of Normandy) If the Britons are to represent more generally the British then this seems a deliberate move to remove judgment about actual right to the Island of Britain by making all the claimants to the throne foreignersbut it also leaves Britain an unpopulated land for the claiming. The actual Britons have again been erased, not only subsumed into English (and more generally British) identity, but here actually erased from the land that they inhabited. Likewise, the Franks are being erased at the same time as the Britons, subsumed into more generally the French. The process here is clear: the game uses a close approximation based on geography, and has chosen the more antique names for the inhabitants of that geography, regardless of ethnicity or history. This is evident in the file names for the historical documentsthe file name for the history of the Britons is British. However, it might have been more accurate for the game to have the player take on the English or the British rather than the Britons, since several of the scenarios require the presence of the English: William Wallace, Battle of Hastings, and the Battle of Agincourt. Likewise, it would be more accurate to have the French, rather than the Franks, in order to account for The Battle of Hastings, the Battle of Agincourt, and the Joan of Arc campaign. Almost none of the scenarios involve historically situated Franks or Britons. Histories and Conclusions As part of the display of research, AoEII includes a History section, accessible from the main menu, in which players can Read about the civilizations in the game, medieval warfare, and more. In this section, the game makes recognition of the oversimplifications that are necessary from the exigencies of balanced gameplay, as its narratives recognize the points of contact between the erased civilizations. This would seem to ameliorate the erasures made for gameplay, but in many ways it perpetuates them. Here again the Britons are made to stand in for whoever is occupying the Island of Britain: the historical narration is the conventional story of subsequent conquests that is familiar in traditional, imperialistic histories of England: it begins with Roman withdrawal in 400, after which the British Isles fell into a very dark period of several centuries and, while acknowledging the Celts, resumes history with the Anglo-Saxons, and accounts for Viking and Norman invasion, and ends with the Hundred Years War with France. All this history is, however, titled The Britons (500 on), which makes no recognition that The Britons refer to a Celtic group rather than any of the groups that feature centrally in the narrativea narrative more properly named the English. Furthermore, the sections on medieval warfare and more are, more precisely, about Western European warfare. In fact, it reads something like an old-fashioned 8th grade world history textbook with a conventional western bias. There are sections on the Dark Ages, on Barbarian Invaders and The Fall of Rome and finally on Feudalisms Decline and the Renaissance. These are provided in the general history section, and do not work with the cultures outside of the Euro-centric deterministic view of history, such as the Aztecs or the Chinese, despite being lumped with the other civilizations. Thus, the history section, in its design, marginalizes non-Western European civilizations, even as it makes a tokenistic display of inclusivity by including a section on each playable civilization. In so doing, the game continues to erase the contexts and nuances of history, subsuming it all into a comfortable narrative of the Western descent and rise via a dark ages and a renaissance. Such a narrative affirms our present view of ourselves as progressive and advanced, above the warring civilizations that the game allows us to play-act for a while. Note: This post is a revision of part of a project developed for a class taught by Dr. Joshua Byron Smith at the University of Arkansas. Id like to thank Dr. Smith for his help in preparing this post. 
4299	Yes	 If you follow my blog or Twitter account, you probably know that I&#8217;m a fan of sketchnotes . Sketchnotes are notes taken during presentations or panels that combine doodles and diagrams and text and typography to capture ideas visually. I learned about sketchnotes a few years ago when I started reading more about visual thinking, and I first tried my hand at sketchnoting back in 2011 . I&#8217;ve found the practice incredibly useful, both for focusing my attention during talks and for capturing ideas from talks for later reference and use. You can see some of my conference sketchnotes over on Flickr , and you can find my sermon sketchnotes (yes, I sketchnote at church!) on my &#8220;Doodling in Church&#8221; blog . Last December, I picked up Mike Rohde&#8217;s new book, The Sketchnote Handbook . I&#8217;ve learned a lot about sketchnoting from looking at the notes shared on Sketchnote Army , a blog created by Rohde, and I wanted to see if I could improve my craft by reading Rohde&#8217;s &#8220;illustrated guide to visual note taking.&#8221; Rohde&#8217;s book is an excellent introduction to sketchnoting, and I believe it&#8217;s helped me create more visually interesting notes that do a better job of capturing key ideas from the talks I attend. If you&#8217;re interested in getting into sketchnotes yourself, I highly recommend it. Rohde begins by making a persuasive argument for the value of sketchnoting. Like Rohde, I used to take copious amounts of text notes on talks and presentations, filling up pages and pages in legal pads. And like Rodhe, I almost never looked at these notes after the talks were over. These days, I use sketchnotes to distill the main ideas of a talk into one or two pages of visual notes that I actually remember and reference. Rohde points out that the practice of sketchnoting is supported by cognitive science, particularly dual coding theory . Our brains process verbal and visual information using separate &#8220;channels.&#8221; Taking text notes is a bit like using half your brain power. Capturing ideas in both words and pictures uses more of your brain, helping you better understand and remember those ideas. Sketchnoting isn&#8217;t the only way to listen actively during a talk (I find that live-tweeting helps me do that, too), but it&#8217;s a useful method, and one that produces a product worth sharing and using down the road. Some people are hesitant to try their hand at sketchnoting because they feel they &#8220;can&#8217;t draw.&#8221; Rodhe points out, as others have , that we all drew as kids and that the quality of drawings we produced as kids are completely sufficient for sketchnotes. &#8220;Kids draw to express ideas,&#8221; writes Rohde. &#8220;They don&#8217;t worry about how perfect their drawings are, as long as their ideas are conveyed&#8221; (p. 15). Later in the book, he distinguishes between structure and art . Sketchnotes can feature simple artwork or fancy artwork, but it&#8217;s the structure of the notes that matters most. That&#8217;s why simple lines, circles, arrows, and stick figures can be just as useful as more highly rendered elements of sketchnotes. I should point out here that The Sketchnote Handbook is one giant sketchnote. Rohde combines words and pictures throughout the book very effectively to communicate his ideas and techniques. The book is full of practical advice for the novice sketchnoter. Here are a few takeaways that I&#8217;ve already found valuable: Live sketchnoting requires you to &#8220;cache&#8221; idea. Sometimes you have to listen for several minutes, processing what the speaker is saying, before you&#8217;re ready to put pen to paper. Holding a few ideas in your head while you make sense of them and see where the speaker is going is a key skill.Sit strategically. Look for a seat near the middle of a row, so you&#8217;re not disturbed by latecomers, and try to sit under a light source so you can see your notebook clearly. I follow this latter advice all the time at my church, which likes to keep the room lights low during the sermons.As the talk begins, consider what kind of pattern your notes will take as they fill up the page. Rohde identifies seven common sketchnote patterns: linear, radial, vertical, path, modular, skyscraper, and popcorn. Some talks lend themselves to some patterns more than others, and you can often predict this based on what you know about the format, speaker, and description.Develop your visual library, the doodles, font styles, and icons you use regularly in your sketchnotes. Rohde&#8217;s book is full of inspiration for doing so. I&#8217;ve already added a couple of extra type faces and arrow styles to my sketchnotes thanks to what I&#8217;ve seen in The Sketchnote Handbook . The book includes examples from Rohde&#8217;s sketchnotes, as well as sketchnotes from at least a dozen other practitioners throughout the book. He also includes a set of visual exercises in his last chapter for practice. If there&#8217;s a fault in The Sketchnote Handbook , it&#8217;s the lack of attention to the selection of visual metaphors and the use of schematic diagrams to represent relationships. Rohde spends a page on metaphors, but his examples don&#8217;t shed much light on how one would go about identifying a useful visual metaphor. I&#8217;ve found Garr Reynolds&#8217; Presentation Zen useful for selecting photos that represent ideas metaphorically, and much of that practice translates to sketchnotes. And while Rohde offers great advice on structuring a page of sketchnotes using his seven patterns, he doesn&#8217;t go into how schematic diagrams using circles, boxes, and lines can effectively convey complex relationships to the extent that Dan Roam does in The Back of the Napkin . Even so, I would recommend Mike Rohde&#8217;s handbook to anyone interested in getting started with sketchnotes. You can find out more about the book on his homepage , and you can view a sample chapter online . Rohde has set up a Flickr group for readers of his book to share their sketchnotes, too, which has served as a nice way to develop a community around the book and the practice. 
4300	Yes	 Slavery compensation: Caribbean nations propose Mau Mau model | World news | theguardian.com (in case this was not shared already. via Rosanne Adderley) Tagged: tumblings 
4301	Yes	 Filing this wonderful resource for the next time I introduce students to the subject. Before beginning our journey to learn HTML and CSS it is important to understand the differences between the two languages, their syntax, and some common terminology. As an overview, HTML is a hyper text markup language created to give content structure and meaning. CSS, also known as cascading style sheets, is a presentation language created to give content style and appearance. To put this into laymen terms, HTML determines the structure and meaning of content on a web page while CSS determines the style and appearance of this content. The two languages are independent of one another. CSS should not reside within an HTML document and vice versa. &#8211; Terminology, Syntax,  Introduction &#8211; A Beginner&#039;s Guide to HTML  CSS . 
4302	Yes	I have finally be granted a six month research leave and I am now totally immerse int he writing of The Book.One of the things I am reflecting upon is the weight we give to documentary evidences in textual scholarship.&nbsp;The graph below shows in a simplified (and utterly imprecise) way the collocation of some most important editorial theories with respect to the centrality they give to the documentary evidence (the materiality of the text). Similarly, editorial format can be equally distributed on a continuous line &nbsp;While presenting a very complex reality of theoretical positions in an over simplistic way, these graphs have the advantage of showing the path between text and document as a continuum, with no clearly defined boundaries. The collocation is not scientifically wighted, it is just the approximate collocation I would give to them. Comments? 
4303	Yes	  Dear colleagues:  We all have a lot on our minds these days. Amidst the swirl, I find myself hungry for fresh ideas and timely, clear thinking to push me and to sharpen my views.  var switchTo5x = true;stLight.options({"publisher":"dr-5af9149c-edc-dab5-e9e1-6c571c0b6824"});
4304	Yes	 A nice set of leadership rules by senior VP of Product at Google Jonathan Rosenberg. The ones that resonated most for me: &#8220;be a broken record&#8221;, &#8220;every word matters&#8221;, &#8220;tell stories&#8221;, strategies and tactics&#8221;, and &#8220;interview well&#8221;. In particular, telling stories is underutilized by almost every product team I&#8217;ve encountered. FYI: I&#8217;m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post Rosenbergs Leadership Rules appeared first on Bokardo . 
4305	Yes	 Hello all, I'm on the hunt for projects/tools/toolsets/good designs that are involved with the digital replication of texts, creating a range of ways to search, interact with, browse and investigate any text. I am based at the university of durham, and what we hope this will enable us to identify are new forms of digital curating and scholarly good practice. Our aim is to be able to outline the important underlying principles for anyone interested in discovering and editing versions of physical texts as a digital entity. Does anyone know of any technologies that we should incorporate into our research?... Or other similar projects / interesting people we should contact?... As part of a larger research we'd like to interview anyone involved with this kind of work - as a Curator, designer etc. Thanks terribly in advance.Mariann 
4306	Yes	 The first Arts Future Book!!! via Tumblr http://charlottefrost.tumblr.com/post/57057537074 
4307	Yes	 Patrick Burns for Deadspin watched 23,000 minutes of SportsCenter , keeping track of the specifics of what the show covered over the year , such as what teams, players, and player descriptions. The graphic above, by my fellow Deadspinner Reuben Fischer-Baum, shows the correlation between winning percentage&mdash;or points, in the case of the possibly nonexistent NHL&mdash;and SportsCenter mentions for teams across the four major leagues.* Our focus here is on just what about a team attracted the attention of SportsCenter's all-seeing eyebeams over the course of a normal season. Our conclusion is that there was a reasonably strong correlation between winning percentage and SportsCenter mentions. It was statistically significant for all leagues except the NHL. Unfortunately, they did not track how many times commentator predictions were completely wrong. 
4308	Yes	 [This post originally appeared at Religion in American History .] The American Antiquarian Society was generous enough to offer me a fellowship this summer, so I took a month to research in the AASs wonderful collections . A fair bit of my time was spent reading through the nearly complete print run of American Tract Society pamphlets from the early to mid-nineteenth century. I wanted to answer a question: did the ATS pamphlets include the sinners prayer, a common feature of twentieth century evangelical tracts? If it did, when did the genre develop? I think I have an answer to that question: yes, the ATS did contribute to the development of the genre of the sinners prayer. More on what I found another time, both here on the blog and in chapter two of the dissertation. Answering that question required a sense of how the ATS tracts were distributed over time, but reading each pamphlets was a poor way to get that sense. Down in the weeds of the pamphletsmost of which sounded alikeit was hard to see how the pamphlets were distributed over time. And whatever patterns I could discern were likely to be unreliable: I was, after all, looking for a particular pattern and was thus at risk of committing a classic historians fallacy. What I needed was an external way of looking at the texts to supplement my close reading. There was a second problem: its really hard to date the ATS tracts. While most of them print a place of publication and a series number, none of them include a date. The date was left off because the tracts were frequently reprinted, sometimes in millions of impressions. For example a popular tract, Legh Richmonds The African Servant , was printed in multiple editions ranging at least from 1816 to 1846, though all bear the series number 60. But S. J. Wolfe of the Antiquarian Society figured out how to date the tracts based on the changing addresses of the ATS. Where I brought a knowledge of theology and religious history to my reading of the ATS tract, and even a general knowledge of the history, economics, and methods of the American Tract Society drawn from other historians work, I had no knowledge of the printing history of the ATS pamphlets. The catalogers at the Antiquarian Society, on the other hand, knew a lot of hard, cold facts about when the pamphlets were published, and who the anonymous authors were. Just as important, they knew when the facts were actually soft and fuzzy, and they had taken pains to represent the ambiguities of the data in the catalog. The solution to the problem of dating the tracts was also the solution to the problem of getting an overview of the tracts. Because the Antiquarian Societys catalog lets users export bibliographic information in a variety of formats, I set out to visualize the ATS printing history using the catalog data. Other scholars have are also using library data to visualize printing: Jim Egan and Jean Bauer have a much more ambitious project using collections from the American Antiquarian Society, the John Carter Brown Library, and the John Hay Library. Method I made a series of visualizations about various questions using Ruby and R. Ill gloss over the code here, but the code and the cleaned-up data is available on GitHub . Heres how I did it: I exported the records for all the relevant items from the AAS catalog. In this case I searched for the records by call number, but for other questions one could search by subject heading, by publisher, and so on. I exported to MARC, since it offered the fullest data, and since the Ruby library for MARC was better than for other formats. I used a Ruby script to munge the MARC records into usable CSV files . I used an R script to analyze the data. The kind of analysis that Im writing about here is not an argument itself, but a step along the way to an argument. Nor do I mean to imply that there is some kind of scientific value in this analysis. Take this for what it is: a behind-the-scenes musing about methodology. Dates One of my questions was when the ATS published its tracts. This is a histogram of the tracts by date. The American Tract Society was founded in 1825 from the merger of the New-York Religious Tract Society and the Boston-based American Tract Society (formerly, the New England Religious Tract Society). The chart shows that the ATS quickly ramped up the publication of tracts in its first five years. Many of these early pamphlets were reprints from British tract societies, such as the Religious Tract Society of London founded in 1799. As was the case with most evangelical institutions from this period, the British had a head start, and evangelicalism was an Anglophone movement with debts to German, French, and Swiss Protestants. The ATS republished works from proven British authors, such as Legh Richmond and Hannah More. After the early series of tracts, beginning in the 1830s, the ATS published more of its own original tracts. The above chart shows the earliest possible date that a given tract was published. But the ATS republished these tracts in many editions throughout the nineteenth century. The point is that the ATS publications tended to be first published in the decade between 1825 and 1835exactly the period when Charles Finney was most active in New York. But unlike Finney, these tracts kept getting the message out for the entirety of the nineteenth century. (The ATS is still publishing today.) And though much of Finneys powerful presentation came from being in his presence, and sitting on his anxious bench, the ATS tracts were carried across the country by colporteurs to places like the pine barrens of New Jersey which the government could barely reach. Subjects A second, obvious, question is, what were these tracts about? Though I had a pretty good sense of the proportions of the various topics, counting the subject headings is a useful correction to possibly haphazard impressions. The ATS catalog entries have 186 distinct subject headings. The distribution of all the subject headings is the familiar long tail. Keep in mind, though, that each tract can have more than one subject heading, so a tract might be about both one of the most obscure topics (Winepoetry) and one of the most common topics (Temperance). The chart is more useful if we limit it to only the twenty most frequently used subject headings. These headings fall into several groups: Tracts which promote conversion: headings like salvation, conversion, repentance, future punishment, and converts certainly fit into this group. Tracts about family life and the education of children. These tracts are also about how to prepare children for conversion. The rest of subject headings, which considered together makes the biggest grouping, are instructions in doctrine and the means of grace. The ATS seems to have thought of its mission as being to edify Christians as much as to evangelize unbelievers. There is one topic which I found to be ubiquitous in reading the tracts, but which is barely noticeable in the subject headings, namely, warnings against infidelity, atheism, and liberal religion. Tracts with the subject heading future punishment were mostly written against Universalists. Other tracts were written against Unitarians. But even though only a few tracts are explicitly about Deists or atheists, they are mentioned or appear as characters in, I would guess, two out of three tracts. Curiously, Catholics are barely mentioned except in a very few patriotic tracts. Historians have long recognized the nineteenth century as the century of Protestant anti-Catholicism, and of course it was. But for the ATS the real bogeyman was not Catholicism but infidelity. On the importance of atheism, skepticism, and free thought for shaping American religion, see my recent historiographic essay and the soon-to-be last chapter of my dissertation. Length Anyone who is familiar with the contemporary evangelical tracts would be surprised at long the ATS tracts are. Where a contemporary tract might be six or eight very small pages with several illustrations, the ATS tracts average sixteen pages of closely printed type and were commonly thirty-two pages long. Besides the main tract that comprised the body, the tracts usually had a paper wrapper which had supplementary materials or another tract in its own right. Bill Brights well-known tract from the 1960s, Do You Know the Four Spiritual Laws , could fit on the wrapper of one of these hefty ATS tracts. Since I am making an argument about how the normative experience of conversion became simplified, I wondered whether the tracts got shorter over time. They did not. Authors The most useful analysis was figuring out who wrote these tracts. Not only were the authors frequently British or occasionally Swiss or German, the authors were frequently from the eighteenth or even the seventeenth centuries. In this histogram Ive charted the number of tracts by the death date of their authors. 1 We can get a sense of who wrote the ATS tracts by looking at most frequently published authors. 2 ranknamediedtracts1Doddridge, Philip1751112Fuller, Andrew1815113Richmond, Legh182784McIlvaine, Charles187375Watts, Isaac174876Edwards, Justin185367More, Hannah183368Newman, William183569Alexander, Archibald1851510Baxter, Richard1691511Bennett, James1862512Burder, George1832513Clark, Daniel A.1840514Malan, Cesar18645 The chart and the table show that most of the authors lived in the nineteenth century contemporaneous with the ATS. This chart does not include anonymous tracts, most of which were from the nineteenth century. Yet the ATS also reprinted works from Puritan divines or English Nonconformists such as John Flavel, John Owen, and Richard Baxter, and also revivalists and evangelicals like theologian Jonathan Edwards, hymn writer Isaac Watts, and most frequently the Nonconformist pastor Phillipp Doddridge. In excerpting and re-framing these works of earlier generations, the ATS was remaking an old tradition into a new tradition. The history of the ATS publications is thus a story of long continuity in an evangelical tradition of heart religion and vital piety, centered on conversion, being gradually remadesometimes intentionally but often through subtle shifts in the meanings of words and drifting in the substance of doctrine or practiceinto a new forms of conversion. Heres to my unsung collaborators: the diligent catalogers at the American Antiquarian Society, some of whom I had the privilege of meeting. I used the death date since there is necessarily quite a few years between ones birth and the time one is publishing. ? The prominence of Isaac Watts is a bit misleading, because he is listed as an author on tracts that contain his hymns, though he might not always be the primary author. But on the other hand, the frequency with which his hymns appear, probably understated in the catalog, is itself a sign of influence. ? 
4309	Yes	Text from a short talk I gave at 'Future Digital', the closing conference of the CHASE Going Digital programme, held on 31 July 2013 at The Open University, Camden Town campus, London. My notes from the event can be viewed on Github Gist. ***** Since March this year I have...
4310	Yes	 I attended the recent ICANN meeting in Durban, South Africa, during which a new milestone in the rollout of the new generic Top Level Domains (gTLDs) was reached: Three companies signed the Registry Agreement while five others signed the Registrar Accreditation Agreement, including registrars fromAustralia, France and the U.S. Registries operate Top-Level Domains; registrars are the entities through which domain names are registered. The three registries applied for Top-Level Domain Names in the Arabic, Chinese and Cyrillic scripts. UCL, as the world&#8217;s leading centre of linguistic expertise in cooperation with SOAS, has been providing linguistic support to ICANN as it makes the Internet&#8217;s addressing system truly international at last. Existing gTLDs include .com, .org and .net, but there are going to be many more exotic ones, especially brand names, over the next few months. 
4311	Yes	 "For sale: Mixing bowl set designed to please a cook".That opening sentence contains 10 words, or "tokens" as linguists often call them. Yet either in its spoken or written form, it really only transmits 4 ideas, or what I imagine Marc Alexander would call " metaphors ", which are concepts that go beyond the words but that express meaning and understanding. They allow us to think in chunks.What?: For saleWhat's for sale?: a mixing bowl setWhat's it like?: designed to pleasePlease whom?: a cook The same sentence represents an attempt to conjure a very measured set of thoughts in another person. I can't take credit for the sentence, but when the author wrote it down, they hoped that you, dear reader, would understand those 4 ideas in the same way as all the other readers, and as they themselves understood them. It's their attempt to control your mind temporarily by drawing upon your understanding and memories associated with those 4 ideas. We may not get all the details exactly the same. Your mixing bowl set may be blue. Mine is seafoam and has spout on each bowl to make it easier to pour your batter into the baking tin. So we likely havn't had exactly the same understanding of the sentence, but our understandings are almost certainly within the limits of what's acceptable to the author.If we add 2 more ideas to the end of the sentence we end up with a failed conjuration:"For sale: Mixing bowl set designed to please a cook with a round bottom for efficient beating".Because of the misplaced modifier, there are now two ways to understand these ideas. Does the bowl have a round bottom for efficient beating, or should the cook who will enjoy the bowl be so proportioned?Visualizations can offer the same ambiguity. Is this an image of a rabbit, or a duck?In this case, it's both, and it's that very ambiguity that the artist intended us to understand. Not all visualizations are intended to teach us something specific, or to so carefully conjure a series of ideas in our minds. That's wholly too modernist for some. Visualizations can be exploratory, used by researchers to come to a different understanding of their data by slicing it in lots of ways until they see something interesting. Or, as I demonstrated in an earlier post, can be a quick way to get a distant look at a large amount of data by reducing it to something easier to digest . In that sense graphing can aid the discovery process of research even before the conclusions are ready to be shared with the world.But when it comes to visualizations for academic publication, unintentional ambiguity is something we must strive to avoid. If done well, there should only be one proper way of interpreting the visualization. It's our job to create something that can conjure specific thoughts in the reader's head based on the graph's shape, colour, size, orientation, etc. And it should go without saying that those conjured thoughts should be grounded in rigorous research.As academics we spend so much time and care on our prose, and even our footnotes. Usually (we hope) that prose comes out lucid and if we're lucky, is enjoyable to read. One of the ways we ensure that is through peer review. The editors help us find people who are willing to take the time to read what we've written and provide constructive feedback upon it.Yet few of us feel we have the aptitude to offer similar feedback on visualizations. We're not visual artists and so we can be forgiven for using colour in confusing ways , or for thinking a pie chart with 100 categories is a good way to express an idea. As I mentioned previously, I'm quite confident that in the present climate, unique looking or impressive visualizations will slip through peer review unchecked, lest the reviewer's lack of expertise in visualization be exposed by making a comment to the effect of " I don't under stand this graph ".Now, far be it from me to suggest we only use column graphs or line graphs, or that we do X, but not Y. I think it's fantastic that so many people out there are pushing the boundaries of what we can achieve via visualization. The folks at the Guardian Data Blog do great work on bringing data to life, and are a wonderful place for anyone seeking inspiration. Instead, what I would suggest is that as creators of academic visualizations, we make sure our graphs are reviewed, even if our reviewers cannot or will not do so in the traditional peer review process.The way I'd propose we do that is to show our friends and colleagues what we've made as often as we can, including during the drafting process. But it's not just about showing them. We have to ask the right questions. Let's use the graph below as a (relatively poor) example of a visualization that we might like to get feedback on. Please note that this is not a graph showing real data about the cost of grain in the 19th century. It's just an example. Most of us likely want to ask "Do you like my graph?" or "What do you think of this?"A more productive starting point is probably: Can you explain this graph to me? You aren't going to be there when your reader or viewer is interpreting your graph. The best way to find out what set of ideas are going to form in their mind is to ask them to explain their thought process out loud.In this case, I had intended to show the seasonal difference in the price of grain in London and Edinburgh over a 20 year period. You may not have picked up on that, which means I need to fix something.Don't be affraid to ask explicitly: Is there any element of this graph that you do not inherently understand? Make sure they can explain the labels on both axes (if relevant). If they don't know where you're getting those values from you may need to rethink your axis labels. You'd be forgiven for asking what the numbers on the Y-axis represent in the example. I didn't label it, so how could you know?When you start experimenting with your visualizations, you're bound to come up with ideas you think are clear, but that just don't translate into ideas that your reader can interpret. Looking at the sample graph, I wouldn't fault you for asking what the top and bottom line of the curves represent. They're supposed to be two line graphs: one representing Edinburgh prices, and one representing London. I've shaded in the space between the lines to emphasize the size of the gap. If this is in fact two lines, then which one is Edinburgh? Which one is London? And when they overlap, how do I know which bit corresponds to which line? Do they cross, or merely meet and diverge again? I havn't made the fact that this is a line graph obvious because the lines aren't distinguishable from the shape formed by the colours. Speaking of colour, you'll want to make sure you havn't come up with a palette that is going to make interpreting your graph difficult for someone with colour blindness. There are many different forms of colour-blindness, so it pays to run a test on your graph. You can do this online by using a " Colour Blindness Simulator " on your finished image.Sticking with the negatives, ask your tester which element of the graph they like the least. For the sample graph, they may say they don't like the colours, or the font, or the legend. Personally, I think using --------&gt; to represent arrows looks lazy. Everyone will have their own opinions on what's worst about your work. If you know what turns people off you can make visualizations that people like. And if they like the visualization, readers are more likely to engage with its message. With this in mind, go ahead and ask if they like your graph. Or if there are any elements of the graph that they particularly fancy. Just as with your prose, it may take a few iterations and a number of different opinions from colleagues before a graph says to others what you think it says in your own mind. Just because you submitted a graph with your article and the peer-reviewers didn't comment on it doesn't mean you've done a good job of clearly expressing your ideas visually.And one last question to ask, just to make sure your readers get the right message and aren't distracted: does the shape of the graph make it look like anything unrelated? Graphs and visualizations have tremendous potential for expressing ideas in academic research, but it's not a skill we're typically taught in school. Most of us learn on the job, or emulate graphs we saw elsewhere that we found effective. Taking the time to ensure the graphs you create transmit the right ideas to your reader is good scholarship. Knowing the right questions to ask makes it that much easier to reach that result.Questions to ask about a visualization:Can you explain this graph to me?Are there any elements you do not inherently understand?Can you explain what each axis shows (if applicable)Will people with colour blindness be able to differentiate your colour palette? (check online)What do you like least about the graph?Do you like the graph / a particular element of the graph?Does the shape of the graph make it look like anything distracting? 
4312	Yes	 openobjects.blogspot.jp - Mia RidgeCrikey. Day three.&nbsp;Where do I start? We've made great progress on our mysterious tool. And it has a name! Some cool design motifs are flowing from that, which in turn means we can really push the user experience design issues over the next day and a half (though we've already been making lots of design decisions on the hoof so we can keep dev moving). The Outreach team have also been doing some great communications work, including a Press Release&nbsp;and have lots more in the pipeline. The Dev/De...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @briancroxall: 'Halfway through. Day three of #OWOT .' openobjects.blogspot.com/2013/08/halfwa&hellip; 01.08.2013 09.11.27 @mia_out: 'Halfway through. Day three of #OWOT .' openobjects.blogspot.com/2013/08/halfwa&hellip; 01.08.2013 09.09.55 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4313	Yes	 techcrunch.com - Josh Constine 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Your standard iPhone camera app is actually pretty slow, able to take just three to six photos per second at 8 megapixels each. But with SnappyCam 3.0, you can shoot 20 full-resolution photos per second thanks to a breakthrough in discrete cosine transform JPG science by its inventor. Twenty frames per second is fast enough to capture shot-by-shot animations or every gruesome detail of an extreme sports crash.SnappyCam costs $0.99 and lets you hold down your finger to take a constant stream of...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @todrobbins: My first thought: that can't be real. My second thought: holy crap, that's amazing. m.techcrunch.com/2013/07/31/fas&hellip; 01.08.2013 09.44.39 @DimitrisTzouris: RT @ TechCrunch : Scientific Breakthrough Lets iOS App SnappyCam Take 20 Full-Res Photos Per Second tcrn.ch/15wvEaU by @ joshconstine 01.08.2013 03.00.43 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @TechCrunch: Scientific Breakthrough Lets iOS App SnappyCam Take 20 Full-Res Photos Per Second tcrn.ch/15wvEaU by @ joshconstine 01.08.2013 02.56.40 
4314	Yes	 twitter.com Instantly connect to what's most important to you. Follow your friends, experts, favorite celebrities, and breaking news. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @jmcclurken: Presenters! Consider this slide layout. It accounts for worst-case likely layout of a room (low screen, flat seating) pic.twitter.com/07vkebZLAz 31.07.2013 23.49.04 @tjowens: Presenters! Consider this slide layout. It accounts for worst-case likely layout of a room (low screen, flat seating) pic.twitter.com/07vkebZLAz 31.07.2013 23.36.54 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @alicedaer: Presenters! Consider this slide layout. It accounts for worst-case likely layout of a room (low screen, flat seating) pic.twitter.com/07vkebZLAz 31.07.2013 23.35.38 
4315	Yes	 briancroxall.net - Brian 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Two hours ago, I had to ask someone what day it was. But now that it&rsquo;s almost midnight, I&rsquo;m finding myself drawn once again to the blank page of the blog post. Or rather, I appear to be treating the idea of blogging every day of One Week | One Tool&nbsp;as some sort of dare with myself. What follows is an account that is perhaps more trees than forest; if you want to get to the larger arboretum of what I&rsquo;ve learned today, skip to the end.As I promised at the end of yesterday&rsquo;s post, today found the...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @mia_out: RT @ briancroxall : Day 3 of #owot : Of Names and Stories and Gophers. The best lesson I&rsquo;ve learned yet! bit.ly/169ju6N #owotleaks 01.08.2013 09.33.26 @briancroxall: Day 3 of #owot : Of Names and Stories and Gophers. The best lesson I&rsquo;ve learned yet! bit.ly/169ju6N #owotleaks 01.08.2013 09.27.41 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4316	Yes	 bbc.co.uk 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;The Queen was expected to urge Britons to pray and remain united and resolute in the event of the &quot;madness&quot; of nuclear war, papers from 1983 show. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @Airminded: &quot;This madness of war is once more spreading.&quot; Queen's speech prepared by UK in 1983 for outbreak of World War 3. bbc.in/13BbcBx 01.08.2013 09.25.18 @archivesopen: 'WWIII Queen's speech' text revealed bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politi&hellip; 01.08.2013 06.58.06 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @caleb_crain: &quot;This madness of war is once more spreading.&quot; Queen's speech prepared by UK in 1983 for outbreak of World War 3. bbc.in/13BbcBx 01.08.2013 08.11.35 
4317	Yes	 img.weburbanist.com A sprawling abandoned Walmart in McAllen, Texas has been transformed into the nation's largest public library, with self-check-out kiosks and an art gallery. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @tcarmody: An abandoned Walmart converted into the world's largest library, in McAllen, TX (town @ Atul_Gawande made famous) img.weburbanist.com/wp-content/web&hellip; 01.08.2013 08.16.35 @mcburton: Abandoned Walmart transformed into amazing public library. I hope this becomes a trend. img.weburbanist.com/wp-content/web&hellip; 01.08.2013 07.41.13 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @dansinker: AMAZING. RT @ Sam__Weller : When a former big box store becomes something important: the world's largest library. img.weburbanist.com/wp-content/web&hellip; 01.08.2013 08.09.46 
4318	Yes	 deadline.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;EXCLUSIVE: Paul Giamatti and FX are in the early stages of a limited series on the spark that started the fire of the Civil War. I've learned that Untitled posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @tcarmody: Paul Giamatti is making @ TonyHorwitz 's John Brown bio, 'Midnight Rising,' into an FX miniseries. bit.ly/17jZBZF #HisSoulisMarchingOn 01.08.2013 06.41.24 @YAppelbaum: Paul Giamatti is making @ TonyHorwitz 's John Brown bio, 'Midnight Rising,' into an FX miniseries. bit.ly/17jZBZF #HisSoulisMarchingOn 01.08.2013 06.27.58 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4319	Yes	An article and video about La Cura has just been published on Il Tirreno Continue reading &#8594; 
4320	Yes	 As a commercial river guide, if you demonstrate any real aptitude at one point or another you will be assigned to be Trip Leader. Just like it sounds, that&#8217;s where the buck stops, and a lot of responsibility comes with it. Your first and foremost responsibility is for the safety of everyone on the trip. You are of course focused mainly on the passengers, as they mostly have no idea what they have signed up for. You can expect that the guides do, but they bear watching too. You can just take my word on that. Once safety has been assured as well as one can in the wild, the next focus of your attention is on fun . Thankfully, fun is pretty hard to deny on just about any river trip. And I&#8217;ve been on a river trip when it has snowed , and I still had an awesome time. If you do things right, then learning is a big part of any river trip &#8212; and it often comes disguised as fun. For most people, there is so much to be learned on a river trip. There may be new trees and plants and wildlife that can be pointed out and named. The local geology is likely not something visitors are knowledgeable about. Even the river itself, and what makes currents, eddies, waves and holes. For me leading trips came quickly in my career as a guide. First I led trips on the Stanislaus and American rivers in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada in California. Then, within a little over a year, I was the trip leader of an 18-day Grand Canyon private (not with a commercial company) trip. This was because I was the most experienced guide on the trip, and had even been down the Colorado through the Grand Canyon the year before &#8212; my inaugural year of becoming a commercial guide &#8212; on a 30-day trip (these are no longer permitted). You might say I learned quickly what it meant to be a trip leader in the wilderness. Without the solid background of training with a commercial river company, I don&#8217;t know what I would have done. But as it was, that provided the essential foundation from which I could build the necessary knowledge to run a Grand Canyon trip safely. Also, I had my one previous trip in &#8220;The Canyon&#8221; from which to draw. This turned out to be essential, as that was when I learned about the &#8220;tides&#8221; of the Colorado River. The Colorado River exits the bottom of Glen Canyon Dam just upstream from where you put-in the boats to run the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon. Since the flow of the river is completely controlled by the dam, they release enough water for recreational purposes during the day and then dial the flow way back at night. On the river this means you could have a vertical displacement change in the river of something like 2-4 vertical feet  depending on a variety of factors. The practical effect of this is if you tie your boat up to shore at night, it might be beached 30 feet away from the river in the morning. If you have ever had to drag a raft this far you will know what a drag (sorry!) this can be. So part of a trip leader&#8217;s responsibility on The Canyon was to tie the boats properly &#8212; which often meant with plenty of slack in the line and a secondary line through the stern of every boat. And then, the last thing you did before falling into bed was to check on the boats. If any were beginning to beach, you pushed them out into the water. You also checked to make sure the lines were good. Only then could you rest. And if you were drunk, it just meant you had to be really careful, but you still had to do it. The parallel with libraries is probably obvious. If you&#8217;ve ever had a position with &#8220;where the buck stops&#8221; responsibility, you never forget what that means. And whether you always hold a position like that or not, you can&#8217;t unlearn it. Whether it is likely your responsibility or not, you won&#8217;t be able to help yourself. You will be out there at night, with the water lapping on shore, checking the boats with a flashlight. Because you know it needs to be done and you know you&#8217;re good for it. &nbsp; Photo: Frequent OARS trip leader Scotty Stevens giving his passengers a safety talk on the Stanislaus River, late 1970s. Photo by Roy Tennant, courtesy of the Stanislaus River Digital Archive. 
4321	Yes	 laura-in-libraryland.tumblr.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Experiments in Art History: Teaching with Digital Tools: Twentieth Century Female Artists and Data Visualization with Undergrads http://bit.ly/Znma03 naraelle: &ldquo; Awesome project highlighting the roles... posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @retius: Experiments in Art History: Teaching with Digital Tools: Twentieth Century Female Artists and Data... tmblr.co/Z7b0psr7DUPA 01.08.2013 07.04.24 @library_laura: Experiments in Art History: Teaching with Digital Tools: Twentieth Century Female Artists and Data... tmblr.co/Z7b0psr7DUPA 01.08.2013 07.03.47 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4322	Yes	wrong parser
4323	Yes	 designtaxi.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt; posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @ilya: The Ultimate Spinny Bar concept! #SBHS RT Dubai Skyscraper Proposal Has Independently Rotating Floors zite.to/13vlvYD 01.08.2013 06.46.24 @rjstein: The Ultimate Spinny Bar concept! #SBHS RT Dubai Skyscraper Proposal Has Independently Rotating Floors zite.to/13vlvYD 01.08.2013 06.41.07 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4324	Yes	 matthew-lavin.com posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @foundhistory: Matthew Lavin on Alan Liu's Digital Humanitiesmatthew-lavin.com/2013/06/though&hellip; 01.08.2013 07.22.45 @mkirschenbaum: Matthew Lavin on Alan Liu's Digital Humanitiesmatthew-lavin.com/2013/06/though&hellip; 01.08.2013 07.19.29 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4325	Yes	 daftaripara.org Snapshots of the everyday, of labour and life. These stills invite a closer look at the processes, objects, machines,&nbsp;skills&nbsp;and bodies that keep Daftaripara moving. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @whitneytrettien: Global book culture --&gt; RT @ MitchFraas : Pictures from Calcutta's binding quarter via daftaripara.org/stills/ 01.08.2013 06.46.53 @icpetrie: Pictures from Calcutta's binding quarter via @ offog daftaripara.org/stills/ see the whole project at daftaripara.org 01.08.2013 06.32.47 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4326	Yes	 Two hours ago, I had to ask someone what day it was. But now that it&#8217;s almost midnight, I&#8217;m finding myself drawn once again to the blank page of the blog post. Or rather, I appear to be treating the idea of blogging every day of One Week | One Tool as some sort of dare with myself. What follows is an account that is perhaps more trees than forest; if you want to get to the larger arboretum of what I&#8217;ve learned today, skip to the end. As I promised at the end of yesterday&#8217;s post, today found the OWOT team putting their heads down and getting earnestly to work on a lot of the different parts of the project. And at this point, it&#8217;s hard to believe that we didn&#8217;t know what we were building 36 hours ago. The dev / design team continued forging ahead on the path that they had identified for themselves yesterday, working pretty solidly from the morning until the end of the day when they showed the whole team a working demo to thunderous applause. The Outreach team decided to start producing text: press release materials, lists of people that we will be peppering with the announcement come Friday. Perhaps even more importantand much more difficultthey worked to come up with the name for our tool. But waitI&#8217;m not necessarily on either of those teams. So what did I do all day? Largely, my day of project management has consisted in moving back and forth between teams, working on different tasks. The Outreach team yesterday came up with a couple of user scenarios to help us all make better sense of how the tool would be used. I volunteered to translate the scenarios and the different conversations that I had heard in conversations with the dev/design team. After managing Networking Belfast , Views of Rome , and other DiSC projects , I&#8217;ve found that I kind of enjoy writing user stories, making sure that I&#8217;m making something that is testable as well as covering all of the aspects of the tool development that we&#8217;re going to need to have to produce the experience that all of the team has imagined. Mia ,the lead of dev/design team and I then sat down and talked through the different stories, prioritizing and ruling some of them as likely out of scope. After this, Meghan and I sat down to talk with Tom Scheinfeldt , Patrick Murray-John , and Sean Takats about software licenses. CHNM tends to use the Affero General Public License (AGPL) . At Emory we&#8217;ve tended towards Apache , so it was good to learn about other options that exist. Meghan and I got to work sussing out the different software libraries that are being used by our development team. I also took on a task from Mia to begin stubs for the documentation we&#8217;ll need to add to our GitHub repo . Somewhere in here, we got some amazing Bolivian salteas for lunch. &#8230;although come to think of it, Sean brought in the food, so we clearly couldn&#8217;t talk about licenses until after lunch. Hmm. Let&#8217;s move on, shall we? Before lunch the Outreach team had provided an overview of both the names that they were considering for the tool as well as metaphors that they were trying to use to understand the whole experience and that were guiding selection of the name. After lunch, they turned their attention to trying to finish off one of the press releases. They had decided that in addition to the press release for the product launch that OWOT&#8217;s emphasis on process over product might be of interest to certain media outlets. In his role as head of Outreach, Jack Dougherty had drafted this text, and that team and Meghan and I workshopped it down to hone the message. Simultaneously, we were talking about what press outlets might be interested in this particular angle. It turns out that thanks to my work with ProfHacker I knew a lot of the people that Ray Palin had identified as worth reaching out to. After finalizing the press release and getting it posted in one version to the CHNM website , I started pounding out emails, both formal and informal. There may have been some curse words thrown when my I couldn&#8217;t connect to my email server and when my keyboard suddenly refused to type. But eventually they got moving. While we were working on all of this, the Outreach team had returned to working on names. Although the team had spent a lot of time so far, Amrys Williams was up for the challenge. More metaphors, more stories, and more throwing hippos at walls to see if they would stick. And you know what, we finally got it. It took 121 name ideasincluding, somehow, &#8220;Croxalizer&#8221; [sic]but we&#8217;ve got a name! We bought some domains, we registered some email addresses and got a Twitter account. We&#8217;re getting ready. That said, while the name was being centered on was the moment of my maximal email frustration. So the moment didn&#8217;t feel as victorious as I would have liked. We then broke for dinner at a great Thai place where we found some amazing objects that are far more connected to our tool than we could have ever guessed. We then repaired to the Mason Inn, where we broke into teams and planned our schedules for tomorrow. Meghan and I acted as go-betweens on both teams, seeing who they would need from the others in order to get their work done in a timely fashion. I wrapped up the evening sitting down with Mia and half of her team, looking again at the user stories to see what was done and what was now out of scope, as well as reviewing other lists of still to be accomplished tasks. In there, I did what I could to take tasks off of Mia&#8217;s plate, to make sure everyone had water and power, and to ping Rebecca Sutton Koeser every 15 minutes about going to bed rather than continuing to code. So that&#8217;s a lot of detail about what I&#8217;ve done today. What does it all add up to? First, I think it&#8217;s safe to say that a big part of tool development ends up being about stories. Coming up with a name requires thinking about the story that that name ties into, about the experience as a whole. The press release is also about a story. Jack did a great job coming up with a rhetorical angle for pitching the process as something that is just as interesting to report on as the final product. And of course there were those user stories. These are different from the other stories and are exercises in precise descriptive prose. In some ways, I think I am drawn to these activities given my training in literature. I like thinking about what words can do and how they convey meaning, and then I like trying to pin those words down in such a way so that my meaning is clear to those with whom I&#8217;m communicating. I also think that building a tool depends in some parts on gophers. In our role of project managers, Meghan and I are doing what we can to take care of the needs of the different teams. One of those needs is of course managing the to-do list. But it also meant hunting down a new computer for a team member or doing that aforementioned &#8220;it&#8217;s bedtime&#8221; pinging. What this experience is helping me realize is how deeply satisfying I find it to be helpful to other people in these ways. It&#8217;s more than simply feeling useful (when I&#8217;m not a coder and when I&#8217;m clearly not the most experience project manager when compare to others on the team); it&#8217;s about building a team through considerate interaction. Making a project, it turns out, is just as much about building a team as it is about anything else. That might not be a profound insight; it is, after all, 1:10 am as I finish drafting this. But it&#8217;s a new one to me, and I will say that it alone makes this whole experience worth it. We&#8217;ve got a lot more work to do tomorrow. See you in 24. (By now I&#8217;m guessing, dear reader, that you&#8217;re canny enough to know not to click on that link above to our GitHub repo. Still, I couldn&#8217;t resist.) EDIT: Just to be sure you&#8217;re not missing anything, there are other OWOT members blogging on a daily basis. Check out posts on day one from Jack , Mia , Amanda , and Amrys ; day two from Jack , Mia , and Amrys ; and day three from Mia and Amrys (more to come, I&#8217;m sure). 
4327	Yes	Crikey. Day three.&nbsp;Where do I start? We've made great progress on our mysterious tool. And it has a name! Some cool design motifs are flowing from that, which in turn means we can really push the user experience design issues over the next day and a half (though we've already been making lots of design decisions on the hoof so we can keep dev moving). The Outreach team have also been doing some great communications work, including a Press Release &nbsp;and have lots more in the pipeline. The Dev/Design team did a demo of our work for the Outreach team before dinner - it's amazing how far we've come since lunchtime yesterday. &nbsp;We still need to do a full deployment (server issues, blah blah), and I'll feel a lot better when we've got that process working and then running smoothly, so that we can keep deploying as we finish major features up to a few hours before launch rather than doing it at the end in a mad panic. There's lots to tackle on many different fronts, and it may still end up in a mad rush at the end, but right now, the&nbsp;Dev/Design&nbsp;team is humming along. I've been so impressed with the way people have coped with some pretty intense requirements for working with unfamiliar languages or frameworks, and with high levels of uncertainty in a chaotic environment. &nbsp;I'm trying to keep track of things in Github (with Meghan and Brian as brilliant 'got my back' PMs) and keep the key current tasks on a whiteboard so that people know exactly what they need to be getting done at any time. Now that the Outreach team have worked through the key descriptive texts, name and tagline we'll need to coordinate content production - particularly documentation, microcopy to guide people through the process - really closely, which will probably get tricky as time is short and our tasks are many, but given the people gathered together for OWOT, I have faith that we'll make it work. Things I have learnt today: despite two years working on a PhD in digital humanities/digital history, I still have a brain full of technical stuff - it's a relief to realise it hasn't atrophied through lack of use. I've also realised how much the work I've done designing workshops and teaching since starting my PhD have fed into how I work with teams, though it's hard right now to quantify exactly *how*. Finally, it's re-affirmed just how much I like making things - but also that it's important to make those things in the company of people who are scholarly (or at least thoughtful) about subjects beyond tech and inter-disciplinary, and ideally to make things that engage the public as well as researchers. As the end of my PhD approaches, it's been really useful to step back into this world for a week, and I'll definitely draw on it when figuring out what to do after the PhD. If someone could just start a CHNM in the UK, I'd be very happy.I still can't tell you what we're making, but I *can* tell you that one of these photos in this post contains a clue (and they all definitely have nothing to do with mild lightheadedness at the end of a long day). 
4328	Yes	by Verena Roberts My learning transformation occurred when I participated in Alec Couros&rsquo; week for the change11 MOOC facilitated by George Siemens , Stephen Downes , and Dave Cormier . I was fascinated by the ease with which I could register, interact, and connect with leading figures in educational technology. As soon as Alec Couros &rsquo;s webinar was over, I said to myself: I want to figure out how to design and create MOOCs for K-12 learning environments. The concept that learners of all ages could learn together based on individual passions rather than through set institutional norms appealed me. It seemed obvious that using social media and building networks was the way to engage learners. Networked learning ignited a fire inside of me to try to change a system. 
4329	Yes	 The first version of this cheat sheet was prepared for a talk given at the NEH, ODH Project Directors&#8217; meeting (September 2012). I revised it in its current form for the Another Week | Another Tool ODH Summer Institute, July 2013, and is available also as a Google Doc: http://bit.ly/OWOTProjectOutreach . Outreach: is intentional;is integral to a tools/projects success. Outreach team must be equal stakeholders in the building process;is not only about publicity, the job includes testing and making the tool accessible to targeted audiences;is user advocacy. Four components of a good outreach strategy:Plan | People | Presence | Press Plan Outreach is intentional, it requires a plan (most grant programs require you have one, too):Articulate primary audiences, secondary audiencesCreate user scenarios.Learn about those audiences: where do they go for information, how can you best reach them.How can you best teach them about the tool later?Think about online and analog ways to reach people.Plan to extend outreach duties well beyond the official launch of the prototype/tool/software: workshops, demos, support. People Outreach must be someone&#8217;s job.Outreach folks must be equal stakeholders in the building process, and are identified as the project begins. This job is not over even after a grant ends&#8230;unfortunately.Outreach must be involved in testing, and in UX/UI advocating for intended users during development.Test like you know nothing about the project. Presence Establish and maintain a stable, digital presence for the project immediately.Name the Tool&#8211;do some research on alternative meanings for names (check Urban Dictionary).Buy domains&#8230;try to scoop up as many as you can once youre committed to a name.Grab the twitter handle.Design a logo and start using it.Build a project website, and only launch the site when you have content and something to say. Pages must contain words and sentences! Do not expound about the PIs CV. Focus on what it is, what it does, what it can do, and who on TEAM is building, creating, testing.Start a blog for regular project updates, process posts, celebrationsTeach others how to use the tool with online Documentation. User guides help teach new users how this works (different formats WP pages, a Wiki, GitHub pages).Format and location of this documentation depends heavily on the users and the software.You might have multiple places to find help, depending on what user needs: Omeka End User Documentation | Omeka Developer Codex | Omeka.net Users | Anthologize User Guide | Scripto Users Guide Give users a place to ask questions and give feedbackAppropriateness depends on users, scope of possible questions, level of technical knowledge required: Omeka devs (Google Group) | End User Forums (BBPress) | Contact form for Net | Anthologize End Users (Google Group) | Anthologize Devs (Google Group)Together with project managers and developers set goals and be ready to release/launch on those dates.Perhaps you want to debut at a big conference or another significant event. Hard deadlines are good. Press Before a release, prepare your publicity.Give press previews to new tool by finding a writer, podcaster who might speak to your intended audiences.Blog progress and launch news, tweet it, get others to retweet.Incorporate electronic, print, social media, in-person. You may have institutional public affairs officers who can help.Prepare analog stuff: Showcase your logo, your URL and let folks show their support for your project w/a sticker, bookmark, pen, mug.Bookmarks can be cheap (500, 4-color, 1-color on backside, under $100 w/shipping). FOLLOW-THROUGH: Answer emails, phone calls.Check forums regularly.Respond to questions.Incorporate user feedback into the tool.Present at conferences.Give a workshop.Encourage others to use it and teach others.Leave a SWAG trail when you travel.
4330	Yes	 chroniclingamerica.loc.gov posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @Musebrarian: UPDATE! Chronicling America now w/ 6.6m pp from 30 state awardees. Explore content from our newest states MI, WV, IA! 1.usa.gov/hylX0 01.08.2013 02.33.36 @NEH_ODH: UPDATE! Chronicling America now w/ 6.6m pp from 30 state awardees. Explore content from our newest states MI, WV, IA! 1.usa.gov/hylX0 01.08.2013 02.19.33 @brettbobley: UPDATE! Chronicling America now w/ 6.6m pp from 30 state awardees. Explore content from our newest states MI, WV, IA! 1.usa.gov/hylX0 01.08.2013 00.19.26 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4331	Yes	 rid.olfo.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @jenterysayers: One of my favorite writing experiences yet? Working with @ iamdan for Rhetoric and the Digital Humanities (rid.olfo.org/rdh/). 01.08.2013 04.09.47 @ridolfoj: .@ billhd and I will update the final TOC in mid-September, but here's a preview - rid.olfo.org/rdh 31.07.2013 23.42.14 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @billhd: One of my favorite writing experiences yet? Working with @ iamdan for Rhetoric and the Digital Humanities (rid.olfo.org/rdh/). 01.08.2013 05.56.58 @billhd: RT @ ridolfoj : .@ billhd and I will update the final TOC in mid-September, but here's a preview - rid.olfo.org/rdh #RDH 31.07.2013 23.46.33 
4332	Yes	wrong parser
4333	Yes	 mmuresearchblog.wordpress.com - Germaine Loader 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Arts and Humanities Research Council and the Economic and Social Research Council have announced that they will only support PhD students in strategic areas.The councils say that, from 1 November, no funding will be provided for project-linked students on applications to the ESRC&rsquo;s responsive-mode research grants scheme and the AHRC&rsquo;s open-call research grants scheme. The change, announced on 25 July, brings them in line with all of the other research councils except the Engineering...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @cryurchin: Bad news for future UK PhD funding: AHRC/EHRC won't fund adding a PhD to a project except on certain targeted schemes wp.me/p337Be-e4 01.08.2013 02.38.26 @cemathieson: Can't believe this!! 'AHRC and ESRC drop inclusion of PhD studentships in open research bids': mmuresearchblog.wordpress.com/2013/07/31/ahr&hellip; 01.08.2013 01.49.42 @juspar: Bad news for future UK PhD funding: AHRC/EHRC won't fund adding a PhD to a project except on certain targeted schemes wp.me/p337Be-e4 01.08.2013 01.43.31 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4334	Yes	 nature.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;When a single genetic mutation first let ancient Europeans drink milk, it set the stage for a continental upheaval. posted by friends: &nbsp;(1) @aehdeschaine: &quot;When a single genetic mutation first let ancient Europeans drink milk, it set the stage for a continental upheaval.&quot; nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; 01.08.2013 03.57.50 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(3) @Skud: Ace interdisciplinary study of the biology, history and consequences of being able to digest milk. nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; /via @ edyong209 01.08.2013 03.07.25 @debcha: @ thisischristina @ nicolatwilley Signal-boosting this, ICYMI: nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; 01.08.2013 01.54.26 @debcha: Ace interdisciplinary study of the biology, history and consequences of being able to digest milk. nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; /via @ edyong209 01.08.2013 01.46.53 @GreatDismal: &quot;When a single genetic mutation first let ancient Europeans drink milk, it set the stage for a continental upheaval.&quot; nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; 01.08.2013 01.42.11 
4335	Yes	 I didn&#8217;t expect a pseudo-Elizabethan rendering of Star Wars to be great literature, but the R2 soliloquies add an unexpectedly amusing new narrative layer. So far, I can say the &#8220;Chorus&#8221; character is overused, too frequently walking onstage and delivering lines of exposition that ought instead be woven into the expanded dialogue between the characters. An Elizabethan drama was a medium for the spoken word, and having a narrator walk on to TELL the audience about the scene is a poor substitute for having a character weave details from the environment into a complex verbal expression of emotion. 
4336	Yes	 The Mathers Museum of World Cultures (MMWC) has a new newsletter. The cover for MMWC #1 is shown above. Clicking on it should take you to the whole issue as it appears on the online publishing platform Issuu . To add the newsletter to your hoard of PDFs, you can download it from the MMWC website . For the long haul, we will soon add the newsletter to the museum&#8217;s &#8220;community&#8221; in the IUScholarWorks Repository . Before talking about the newsletter as infrastructure, I want to thank MMWC Assistant Director Judy Kirk for her great work getting it edited and launched. This is a small summer issue that recaps some recent MMWC developments. A forward-looking fall issue will follow it very soon. While thanking Judy, I want to also thank the whole MMWC community&#8211;staff, volunteers, students, researchers, advisory board members, donors&#8211;for the work that we begin reporting in this first issue of the newsletter. One of the museum&#8217;s accomplishments of the first half of 2013 was the establishment of an ambitious strategic plan. One thread running through that plan is work aimed at putting into place a range of kinds of museum &#8220;infrastructure.&#8221; Some of this will be very visible to the museum&#8217;s friends and supporters, other kinds of infrastructure will help the museum do its behind-the-scenes work more effectively. As I can, I will try to tell the story of our infrastructure work here. I have found the public reporting of my colleagues and of peer-institutions extremely helpful and my aim here is to reciprocate in appreciation for what I have learned from them. (For a recent example, consider this great account of the building of a teaching lab at the Penn Museum .) Our new newsletter represents a beginning, a first start. We know that it will mature and change over time. In software-speak, it will be in perpetual beta . One aspect of this status, is that the newsletter&#8217;s users will be &#8220;co-developers&#8221; and the newsletter will respond to not only institutional need but also to the needs of its community. One element of the environment out of which the new newsletter has arisen is the beginnings of a comprehensive branding effort at Indiana University . As an Indiana University unit, the museum wants to both contribute to the success of the university as a whole and to benefit from the institution&#8217;s overall success. Advancing, and aligning with, the university&#8217;s branding work is part of this. The new newsletter&#8217;s fonts are the university&#8217;s new fonts. Its colors are drawn from the university&#8217;s new palettes. The museum&#8217;s wordmark is our official instance from the university&#8217;s wordmark and signature system. As these things go, our timing was very lucky. When a new enterprise branding system rolls out, there are always plenty of units who have legacy graphics, templates, and content in place. The move to a unified brand system is always painful for such units, both in terms of work and sunk costs. For the museum, our bringing a newsletter into existence just after the release of the new brand system is an incredibly lucky break. A museum newsletter staple is acknowledging donors (financial, collections, and in-kind). Saying thanks in diverse ways is a crucial part of museum stewardship. Our new newsletter contributes to this work. (Thanks again MMWC donors!). It also includes a link to another new piece of MMWC infrastructure. This is what is called, in IU-speak, our &#8220;give now&#8221; button . This is a direct link to the Indiana University Foundation, where prospective donors can quickly and easily make financial contributions to advance the museum&#8217;s mission. (While you are thinking about it, why not give it a try and see for yourself how easy it is! If you need to find it, the give now button is also always accessible from the museum&#8217;s homepage .) The museum&#8217;s strategic agenda will require additional financial support and, for this reason, a growing portion of my time is being spent connecting with donors, prospective donors, and university (and foundation) administrators laying the groundwork for new development work. The newsletter and the give now button are both key elements for this effort. Developing a social media strategy is another related kind of infrastructure work. This is a rapidly changing sector, but we now have a working plan in place. The museum is connecting via a number of platforms. The distinctive ways that we intend to (try to) use each of them would make for a post of its own, but I can note here that the MMWC can be found on Facebook , on Twitter , on Google+ , on Pinterest , and on Flickr . If you are using one of these services, I hope that you will follow (like, etc.) the MMWC there. We are eager to keep up with you and to help you keep up with all that is happening at the museum and in the larger worlds in which the museum works. (The museum does not yet have a blog, but this space can serve that function for the time being.) As noted above, we are trying out Issuu for a fancy and social media-friendly presentation of the newsletter. (As Wikipedia describes it: Issuu is an &#8220;online service that allows for realistic and customizable viewing of digitally uploaded material, such as portfolios, books, magazine issues, newspapers, and other print media.)&#8221; As those consulting our newsletter there will discover, Issuu is presently very popular with American museums, who (like we are) use it to share their newsletters and magazines. &#8220;But these services come and go!&#8221; you say. &#8220;What about preservation for the future?&#8221; you rightly ask. Here is where our partnerships with the IU Bloomington Library are crucial. As noted above, the newsletter will be placed into the IUScholarWorks Repository . While it is not there yet (give us a bit of time to make sure that there are no bugs in the new newsletter), you can find some recent MMWC content there. As my example, I invite you to check out the small book that we recently published on the occasion of the Treasures of the Mathers Museum exhibition. (Kudos to its author, MMWC Curator Ellen Sieber.) We are presently digitizing the museum&#8217;s publications archive and making these older works accessible in IUScholarWorks. In this form, they have stable URI s and will be looked after digitally by the awesome folks at the library. I could keep going along these lines, but let me close with a behind-the-scenes example. This past week, Ellen Sieber finalized work on internal protocols and strategies for our enterprise use of Zotero , the award winning research tool for &#8220;collecting, organizing, citing, and sharing&#8221; research sources. We are already making great use of this tool as we pursue research and planning work together as a staff and community. Our student practicum students have been valued colleagues in getting this piece of our infrastructure up and running. In our strategic plan, we identify building a research collaboratory as a key goal. Our getting going with Zotero as an enterprise system is a good step forward on this goal. (Thanks Ellen!) As will be suggested by this partial accounting of our recent infrastructure building (/choosing) work, we are already on a bazaar-like path (after Eric Raymond&#8217;s contrastive image of the cathedral and the bazaar ), splicing together a range of basic off-the-rack tools and strategies (rather than waiting and building a large customized multipurpose tool and approach). This strategy is familiar to me from my work on Open Folklore . Please join us in this work. Share your good ideas and your experiences. Let us know what is working and what isn&#8217;t. Filed under: Arts Administration , Design , Digital Projects , DIY , IT (Information Technology) , Mathers Museum , Museum , Practical Information , Scholarly Communication , social media , Software 
4337	Yes	 vintagenola : Ruins of Belle Grove Plantation &#8211; 1938 Tagged: tumblings 
4338	Yes	Resignation beyond sorrow on the Facebook Platform and beyond &mdash; In recent weeks, Facebook has been sending emails imploring me to complete a survey about how they might improve their development platform. I'd been deleting the messages, but after the third request or so, I decided to click through. For those lucky enough to have avoided it, the Facebook Platform is a set of tools and services that allows developers to build software that lives atop or connects to Facebook. I've already got a good measure of existential dread built around Facebook as a platform, but the ongoing badgering burst my bile bubble. The first survey question asked "Why would... ( read more )
4339	Yes	 The idea that generations of Shakespeare scholars got it all wrong appeals to the Saturday morning &#8220;kids rule!&#8221; ethos, where the kids look into the camera and wink, adult authorities are easily duped, and the bad guys foreclosing on the pizza parlor can be thwarted by dumping a bucket of water on their legal documents. [T]here are zombie arguments, which can never be finally killed. No matter how often they are  you might think  overwhelmed by evidence to the contrary, these arguments find new advocates, are reanimated, get unsteadily to their feet, and stumble groggily onwards. A prime example of such a zombie is the denial that the plays of Shakespeare were written by William Shakespeare, and the accompanying claim that in fact they were written by Francis Bacon, or the Earl of Oxford, or Christopher Marlowe, or even Queen Elizabeth I. It&#8217;s worth just pausing for a moment, as we stand on the brink of an engagement with these assertions and before we have begun to consider their glaring weaknesses, to summarise the evidence for the straightforward view that William Shakespeare of Stratford wrote the plays attributed to him. &#8211; Standpoint . 
4340	Yes	 This summer, my family and I rented a lake house for a few weeks. We were excited to have a grill, and at first, we took serious advantage: burgers, chicken, kebobs, barbecue, etc. But we soon ran up against two problems: meat fatigue and a fridge full of leftovers. Between the two of us, my wife and I have a number of standby techniques for disposing of miscellaneous leftovers, but most (like frittatas and stir fry) require making the house even hotter with a hot stove. Pizza to the rescue! We got the idea early in our trip to try making pizza on the grill. It turned out so well that we ended up doing it a number of times. Not only was it a good way to get rid of just about any grilled leftovers, but it was legitimately good pizza in its own right &#8211; even when some of the ingredients we used were kinda cheap. Arriving at the best technique was the biggest challenge. I&#8217;ve described the process below. We had a propane grill, which was helpful for heat control, but you could do it with charcoal and it&#8217;d probably taste better. Get a dough &#8211; We got our doughs from the local pizza joint. You could make it yourself, but it&#8217;s a pain to make pizza dough, and so cheap to buy it. I&#8217;ve bought doughs from at least a half dozen pizzerias, and I&#8217;ve never paid more than $4 for a large one. As long as it&#8217;s a non-chain joint that does reasonable business, you know the dough will be fresh, and prepared with more expertise than if you&#8217;d done it yourself. (Some grocery stores sell pizza doughs. I&#8217;ve never bought one, so I can&#8217;t vouch &#8211; but I have noticed that they&#8217;re generally pretty small. Also, you can buy premade crusts, but is lame, as it takes away the biggest advantage of the grill, namely that it gets hot enough to cook a crust properly.) Get a large dough from a local pizzeria. Price: $2-4. Get the rest of your ingredients &#8211; You&#8217;ll need: Sauce &#8211; We used cheap jarred sauce. Plain crushed tomatoes would probably be even better. Once we made a pie with leftover pulled pork, and I used a thin layer of barbecue sauce instead. Cheese &#8211; We had our best results with Polly-O mozzarella, either grated large or cut into very thin strips/slices. The pre-shredded stuff is a big question mark &#8211; could be fine, but could be pretty dry (that is, too dry &#8211; good pizza cheese should be a bit dried). You can use another cheese as an accent, like a bit of goat cheese. Toppings &#8211; Whatever you have laying around. Once we made something pretty fancy (some chi-chi salami), but usually it was whatever meat and veggies we&#8217;d grilled the day before. If it&#8217;s a bit limp after sitting in the fridge, give it a quick saut before using. Fresh herbs are nice too. Oil &#8211; We used olive oil at a couple different points in the process, as described below. Get your mise en place together &#8211; I&#8217;m typically cavalier about getting stuff in place before cooking, but with grilled pizza it&#8217;s crucial. The steps below can be fast and furious, and you won&#8217;t have time to stumble drunkenly to the fridge to get ingredients. Get it together. High Life optional but recommended Preheat, clean, and oil the grill &#8211; Turn it up as high as it goes. The reason why you&#8217;re able to make decent pizza on the grill, but not in your oven, is because the grill gets a few hundred degrees hotter. Give it at least 15 minutes to get blazing hot (or more, depending on how your grill works). Make sure it&#8217;s clean and well-oiled, or your crust will stick and break. Stretch the dough &#8211; There are lots of ways to turn a ball of dough into something resembling a pizza. My preferred technique is to stretch it to a disc, then hold it vertically by the edge, letting the dough fall downward while stretching the cornicione a little bit. Keep turning and stretching, allowing gravity do most of the work but helping to keep a pretty uniform thickness. Basically, make the crust as big and thin as you can without breaking and without being too big for your grill. Almost ready to flip First grilling &#8211; It&#8217;s time to give a quick sear to what will end up being the top of the pizza. Lay the stretched dough on the grill. (It&#8217;s flexible, so now&#8217;s the time to make that circularish dough into a rectangularish shape, if that&#8217;s how your grill is shaped.) Brush the exposed side of the dough with olive oil. Then close the lid. Let it cook for maybe a minute, then check the upskirt. Once it&#8217;s charred to your liking, turn the burners all the way down &#8211; this&#8217;ll be important in a second. Use a big long spatula to make sure the whole crust is loose from the grill, and then use that same spatula (along with some tongs, or your hands) to flip the crust over. Upskirt (that&#8217;s a technical term) Post-flip Top the pizza &#8211; You&#8217;ve turned the burners way down, but the grates are still very hot. You&#8217;ll want to top the pizza as quickly as possible, so you can get the lid closed and the cheese melted before the bottom has a chance to burn. Brush the pie with oil. Then sauce and cheese &#8211; if you put the cheese down first, it melts a little better, but it&#8217;s harder to then spread the sauce, so experiment to your liking. Then the toppings. It&#8217;s helpful to have two people working here, one doing the oil, the other following right behind with sauce, and so on. Topped and ready for the second cooking Let it cook &#8211; Close the lid and crank the heat up all the way again. Because the grill cooled a lot while you had it open to flip and top (when the heat was turned down), this second cooking will take a bit longer than the first. Check the pizza after two or three minutes. You&#8217;re looking for two things: the cheese should be adequately melted, and the bottom of the crust should look adequately done. If it seems like the crust is cooking too fast, turn down the heat. Voil Remove and dress &#8211; Get a platter, and use your big spatula to get the pizza off of the grill. Depending on size and thickness of crust, it should be pretty firm and easy to handle. This is when I like to dress with basil and a drizzling of oil. Some Parmasean or Romano cheese would also be good. Here are a few of the pies we made over the course of our stay: Click to view slideshow. Unless you&#8217;ve got a special oven made for cooking pizza in your kitchen, the technique described above is likely to get you the best home-cooked pizza you can make. It&#8217;s a cheap and delicious way to put leftovers to good use. Hop to it, before grilling season is over! Related posts: Totonno&#8217;s burns, Boone mourns Honeymoon barbecue, part 1: the West Eating barbecue is a good way to spend a vacation 
4341	Yes	 BreweryMap , a Google Maps mashup and mobile app, provides two main functions. The first is that it tells you where the nearest brewery is so that you'll never go thirsty again. The second and far more important function is that you can punch in two addresses, and BreweryMap tells you all the breweries that are on the way from point A to point B. Let your fantasy become a reality. Just make sure to spread out your trips. 
4342	Yes	 a little comic about the AHA embargo fiasco I am not an historian, nor a member of AHA, nor an early-stage scholar, nor a publisher, nor am I responsible for library acquisitions. But then, the same can be said of plenty of folk who have weighed in on the decision by the American Historical Association to release a statement allowing for (and by implication, perhaps, endorsing) the &#8220;embargo&#8221; of history dissertations. As Rick Anderson notes (in a Scholarly Kitchen post that provides a pretty strong overview), the AHA &#8220;smack[ed] the hornet&#8217;s nest.&#8221; I follow enough Digital Humanities and Open Access inclined historians on Twitter that this statement, and the furor that ensued, registered substantially throughout my feed. And over the past week or so, the discussion has trickled upwards to the usual suspects (and beyond! ) and sideways to other disciplines. At least it has to my own, based on listserv discussions and retweets. And it should spread, because it&#8217;s not just an issue for historians. Times for university presses and for academic libraries are tough all over, and that affects every discipline. As someone who routinely advises late-stage graduate students and untenured faculty, I think that the questions raised by the AHA statement are ones that everyone in the humanities should be thinking about, not just members of that particular organization. For a good cross-section of the various positions and issues, my best recommendation is Open History , a project that began as part of the backlash against the AHA statement, but one that I&#8217;ll be watching with interest. They&#8217;ve got a pretty thorough collection of the responses to date, and a mechanism for adding others (addressing a weakness of the link round-up posts I&#8217;ve seen). I&#8217;m thinking about using that &#8220;issue&#8221; in my DH course for next spring, incidentally. I have a couple of thoughts, neither of which necessarily addresses the core issues at play in the Statement or the responses to it. The first is that, put simply, I think discussions like these reveal their scale-free status, or at least raise the question of scale. As I&#8217;ve been sorting through what I want to do with my network rhetorics project, I&#8217;ve been returning to some of the terms and ideas that I&#8217;ve been taking for granted, and one of those is this idea of scale. We describe random networks as having scale whenyou can select any of the nodes and treat them as roughly representative of each of the nodes in the network; in other words, the behavior of a given node &#8220;scales up&#8221; as typical to the network itself. In a scale-free network, however, you can&#8217;t generalize from the behavior of a single node to the network. Easy enough, right? Whether we treat the system addressed by the AHA Statement as a single network, or see it as a set of overlapping networks of various stakeholders (graduate students, faculty, universities, publishers, libraries, et al.), those networks are scale-free, which makes framing any discussion problematic. Insofar as we can speak of a system here, it&#8217;s difficult for me to see any particular node or group of nodes as typical. I don&#8217;t think there are many among us in the academy who would be arrogant enough to describe their own writing process, hiring process(es), job histories, departmental and college relationships, publication records as typical of all of their colleagues , not in academia, their own field, nor even their own department. Part of how scale-free networks function is iterative&#8211;the status of a given network affects its future development. So, for example, highly trafficked websites are more likely to attract additional traffic&#8211;our experience of the web isn&#8217;t random (or scaled). Each stakeholder in this conversation has a variety of factors to balance, and the ratio among them is a decision that happens locally, based on circumstance, and that ratio necessarily shifts over time. I know that this sounds painfully self-evident (different Xs behave differently!), but you can see a certain amount of incommensurability that creeps into the discussion. We can&#8217;t speak in generalized terms about the policies of academic presses, so we push for specific evidence. But because those specifics don&#8217;t scale, they can never function beyond the level of anecdote, and ultimately make it more difficult to speak in generalized terms. I work in a field where perhaps the best-selling book of all time ( Cross-Talk in Comp Theory , now in its 3rd edition) is not published by a university press but a professional organization, 95% of which appeared in print prior to its inclusion in that volume, and is almost entirely available to anyone for free provided they have access to JSTOR. And that tells you exactly nothing about NCTE&#8217;s own editorial policies, much less the other presses in our field, much less academic presses in general. In the absence of representative anecdotes, what can be done? Do arguments like this get to a point where we should just throw up our hands? Not really. I do think, though, that at a certain point, networks of arguments hit a threshold where incommensurability sets in. When that happens, a different kind of argument takes place. And maybe this is my second point: lemons are to lemonade as scale-free arguments are to scale (as in &#8220;when life gives you X, you make Y&#8221;). While a number of people have responded to the AHA Statement as a particular kind of intervention (endorsing a rapidly deteriorating and increasingly obsolete model of scholarly communication), I wonder if it&#8217;s more appropriate to think of it as an attempt to introduce scale into the discussion, to establish some kind of baseline that allows us to say certain things about the typical behavior of that system. Bear with me. It&#8217;s an imperfect analogy, to be sure, but think about professional sports, and the effects achieved through salary caps. It&#8217;s still hard to speak of the typical franchise in, say, the NBA (the Celtics and Lakers are not representative, e.g.), but a salary cap mitigates the scale-free quality of the network of franchises, allowing Oklahoma City to compete with Los Angeles, even if the two take very different approaches to team development, talent acquisition, etc. Even though teams may appear to ignore the cap (hello, Brooklyn!), the penalties for doing so are not insubstantial (increased luxury taxes, the inability to sign players for more than the league minimum, etc.), and can&#8217;t be maintained indefinitely. The salary cap doesn&#8217;t homogenize the league nor guarantee any sort of sustained success for a franchise, but it does level the field in terms of opportunity. There are still strategies and tactics involved, but there&#8217;s sufficient scale in the network (we might argue) to allow every team to compete. Part of the AHA Statement, then, is about scale: all graduates should be able to choose what to do with their dissertations. In this sense, the AHA Statement isn&#8217;t so far away from guidelines offered by the MLA regarding the value of digital work : Institutions and departments should develop written guidelines so that faculty members who create, study, and teach with digital objects; engage in collaborative work; or use technology for pedagogy can be adequately and fairly evaluated and rewarded. The written guidelines should provide clear directions for appointment, reappointment, merit increases, tenure, and promotion and should take into consideration the growing number of resources for evaluating digital scholarship and the creation of born-digital objects. If your department or discipline falls under the MLA umbrella, then this provides a pretty clear statement about the importance and value of digital work&#8211;whether or not every single department follows this Statement to the letter, MLA provides a baseline for the responsible evaluation of tenure/promotion cases that include such work. It doesn&#8217;t say, however, that you should not be tenured unless you do such work, or that folks who don&#8217;t work digitally are less likely to be tenured. If I were forced to name the difference between these two sets of claims, perhaps I&#8217;d call them policy statements and position statements. The MLA here is setting policy, or at least offering a Statement that itself can be adopted and adapted to policy on the local level. Where the hornet&#8217;s nest gets smacked with the AHA Statement, I think, is precisely those moments when it drifts away from policy towards position: an increasing number of university presses are reluctant to offer a publishing contract to newly minted PhDs whose dissertations have been freely available via online sources&#8230;.online dissertations that are free and immediately accessible make possible a form of distribution that publishers consider too widespread to make revised publication in book form viable&#8230; I don&#8217;t think it&#8217;s particularly controversial to note that, if your interest is in crafting policy, the phrase &#8220;tangible threat&#8221; is not the best choice. If nothing else, that phrase alone functions deictically, calling attention to the specific circumstances surrounding the Statement and inviting the polarization that occurred in response. It treats those circumstances not as variable or conditional (which they surely are, if others&#8217; responses are to be trusted), but as given. And it turns the policy into an outgrowth of a position that is conjectural (and which proved to be controversial). I don&#8217;t know if I&#8217;d go so far as to say that it&#8217;s simply a matter of tone, but it&#8217;s hard for me to imagine that there would have been nearly as much outcry, if the Statement had presented the policy as a necessary update given the shifts in scholarly communication/technology. I think that the case (and the policy) could have been made without implying that OA advocates&#8217; beliefs constitute a (tangible!) threat to their newer colleagues. If I were to put a bow on this, I think I&#8217;m slowly articulating an idea for myself about network rhetorics: this notion of making an argument to scale is something that I find coming up again and again, one that only really emerges with clarity when you think about arguments ecologically or as networked. I still don&#8217;t quite have the vocabulary for it yet, but most networks don&#8217;t occupy either the random or the scale-free end of the spectrum; they&#8217;re semi-scaled, maybe, and maybe I&#8217;m thinking about scale as a consequence of rhetoric. That may be the next puzzle piece for me as I work on my next book. I wish I had a witty remark to insert here about my failure to embargo this post, but let your imagination run wild&#8230; That&#8217;s all. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
4343	Yes	 Two weeks ago, I had the privilege to teach a three-hour workshop titled &#8220; Nonprofits Social Media Toolbox &#8221; for the annual Cal State Fullerton (my employer) Summer School for Nonprofits . The workshop provided an overview of some of the innovative social tools available to nonprofits, and showcased innovative social media examples by nonprofits. One session of the workshop focused on how nonprofits (and not-for-profits) can make good use of Instagram. Following is a still-evolving Storify I pulled together for the workshop and embedded into my corresponding workshop guide . I continue to add good examples as I find them, so be sure to subscribe to my Storify if this topic is of interest to you. View the story &#8220;Social Media for Nonprofits: Instagram&#8221; on Storify 
4344	Yes	 This post began as thank you to Folasade Adeoso for allowing me to use an image she created as my Twitter cover image (@jmjafrx) and as the Diaspora Hypertext, the Blog icon . But it became something more as I reflected on why a post like that was necessary and on what it means to make media and scholarship in the presence of and in the shadow of power. What does it mean for me to ask permission, to receive it, to attribute ideas to their proper owners? To make sure every blog post carries citations or credit for any images, quotes, and screen captures? Artist-thinkers from Bettina Judd to Moya Bailey to Katherine McKittrick have discussed the politics of citation before . Adeoso discussed some of the same herself in her interview with OkayAfrica : One thing thats so sad about tumblr is that credits get lost. Im learning: I keep the original photoshopped file; I set up my tumblr page; Im owning this. I made this image of Grace Jones, using the Bulletproof album cover which I cropped. One day I went on tumblr and this image had like 2000 reblogs, and I would never had known! People dont understand, it hurts! I probably didnt sleep all night because I was making that and you just took it and put it on your blog. Like Erykah Badu said, Im an artist and Im sensitive about my shit. [The person apologized  added a credit] Read the rest of the interview here . Tumblr is my preferred blogging platform and what she said resonated with me. It&#8217;s the LatiNegr@s Project home base and where I&#8217;m trying to build the Codex . But tension around politics of citation, especially where it involves women and genderqueer people of color, social media, and proper attribution has flared white hot for weeks now. These politics were on display, again, just a couple weeks ago when Genie Lauren ( @MoreandAgain ) created a petition to stop Juror B37&#8242;s book deal, posting the name and phone number of her literary agent on Twitter . The offer was rescinded, but the event was reported by major media sites like BuzzFeed as though the book deal ended because of a near spontaneous decision made by the Juror B37 &#8211;not as though Lauren played a significant, activist role in having the offer pulled. More recently, in an article for Gawker, Cord Jefferson plagirized, nearly word-for-word, analysis and wit by longtime Twitter wordsmith @thewayoftheid . When Jefferson and Gawker were confronted by @thewayoftheid on social media, their first response was to condescend to and denigrate both the accusation and the accuser. Tracy Clayton reported on the situation for The Root : &#8220;Whoever was manning Gawker&#8217;s Twitter account shot down the accusation, calling it &#8220; bulls&#8211;t .&#8221; They went on to counteraccuse the Twitterer of plagiarism, and Gawker writer Rich Juzwiak joined in the fray , screaming about how nobody knows who @TheWayOfTheId is. (I guess because big news outlets never take from smaller nameless content producers?)&#8221; [The storify referenced is available here courtesy of Imani Gandy (@AngryBlackLady on Twitter and Senior Legal Analyst at RH Reality Check)] Politics of citation are coming up again and again and again as big media triangulates with social media and the intellectual genius of woc and qpoc on the internet. The appropriation of ideas across the internet requires the willful unseeing of non-white voices online&#8211;making it clear that yes, in fact, racism does still exist, even on the internet . This willful unseeing is made even more possible through a racialized condescension toward and demeaning of the way woc and qpoc interact online . Cursing, twerking, yelling (writing in all caps) or using shorthand internet slang, snarking in 140 character bursts&#8211;our dozens are fun, sexy, and intellectual only to the extent we stay in our lane (referencing pop culture or very current events like #PaulaDeanDishes). But it isn&#8217;t seen as serious work. The very act of inhabiting social media sites like Twitter or Tumblr, as opposed to writing for a major publication or hosting a blog (or teaching in a classroom) seems to give big media sites and other readers/watchers/lurkers permission to dismiss those speaking/tweeting/Tumbling as though they have nothing worthwhile to say even as their labor is subsumed by others more credentialed, capitalized, with bigger megaphones. Even among digital humanists, with notable exceptions like Chris Long ( @cplong ), social media is seen as a means to an end or a fun corollary to more serious #dh work like databasing or coding. Social media is fun but it is also labor. It is how I (and many others) engage the digital humanities. It is time-consuming and messy, often vulgar and full of typos. That doesn&#8217;t mean it doesn&#8217;t deserve proper acknowledgement or isn&#8217;t intellectual. Social media or otherwise, attribution is a baseline for scholarly production and should be a baseline for online interaction. Providing footnotes, requesting permission, and adding citations isn&#8217;t difficult. It isn&#8217;t time consuming. It does require forethought and a recognition that there is real work behind everything found on the internet. It means acknowledging a politics of citation, of discussing, sharing, attributing work is always at play when we share online and in the midst of those politics some voices are always rendered invisible . It means challenging internalized assumptions&#8211;likely imported from &#8216;real life&#8217; and the way society privileges politics created in the classroom, the boardroom, and the senate chamber over the corner, the barber shop, or the laundromat&#8211;about where knowledge is being created online and the role social media plays in intellectual production. And for those of us blogging and sharing as academics, it requires a determination to face down our own ability to oppress and silence even in our most well-meaning discussions. When I discussed #femfuture in a previous post , I wrote a coda to academic feminists. That coda was also meant to ping academic bloggers in general, especially those making media related to black history and Atlantic slavery. We deal in memory and policy as often as we deal in archive, marking and remarking on territory soaked in blood but covered over in wet cement. We have an obligation to ask ourselves, daily, hourly, and by the Twitter bird minute, &#8220;Why and for whom do you work (online)?&#8221; Tagged: accountability , blogging , methodology 
4345	Yes	 gonebut : On the occasion of the 107th anniversary of the marriage ofLon W. Colvert and Caroline http://wp.me/s3c4UM-745 View Post Tagged: tumblings 
4346	Yes	 The job posting below is from the Code4Lib email list.  The Getty Research Institute (GRI) seeks a creative, technology-groundedperson with a background in art history and/or computer science toconceptualize, advise, and coordinate digital humanities projects andcollection digitization projects. Reporting to the GRIDeputy Director, the position will interact with a diverse range ofcollaborators including resident scholars, curators, research staff,librarians, technologists, and external partners to increase access tocollections, develop new tools for using digital collections, and facilitateoriginal art-historical research using digital resources. The Digital Humanities Specialist will recommend strategic directions,participate in prioritizing projects, research and recommend new technologies,track advancements in the field, manage project teams, and collaborate withexternal partners. Responsibilities: Coordinate and/or lead cross-functional digital humanities project teams and collection digitization teams comprised of internal and external partners. Work in close partnership with the Manager of Digital Services, the Head of Digital Art History, and the Digital Library Steering Committee; monitor and document projects from initiation through completion, interfacing with internal and/or external partners on content, administrative, and technical matters; plan and direct schedules; monitor project budgets; recruit and supervise project staff, interns, and volunteers; oversee the production of all project-related communication and outreach including reports, presentations, and announcements.Organize GRI-wide discussions to select and prioritize digital projects; participate in various committees devoted to advancing and executing the institution&#8217;s digital initiatives; document the institution&#8217;s policies and procedures.Work with scholars conducting digital humanities projects and accessing digital collections.Collaborate in the production of digital publications and other scholarly products.Provide professional expertise and services while leveraging the knowledge and skills of others.Monitor and track advancements in the field; research and recommend new technologies; build networks between the GRI and other digital humanities centers.Seek external funding for projects, as appropriate.Coordinate activities closely with GRI Leadership, Digital Services, Library Departments, Digital Art History, the Scholar Program, GRI Research Projects, GRI Publications, Library Information Systems, and Collection Development.Conduct research and collect data, as required.Develop new competencies among staff and expand institutional knowledge of current and emerging best practices, tools, and standards for digital humanities projects, digital collections creation and management, and digital preservation. Qualifications: Bachelor&#8217;s degree; Master&#8217;s degree preferred8 to 10 years of project/process management and subject area experience, preferably in an art-related organizationRelevant foreign language knowledge preferred for academic-based projects Brought to you by code4lib jobs: http://jobs.code4lib.org/job/9257/ 
4347	Yes	 John Nelson of IDV Solutions strung together satellite imagery for dramatic animated GIFs . Having spent much of my life living near the center of that mitten-shaped peninsula in North America, I have had a consistent seasonal metronome through which I track the years of my life. When I stitch together what can be an impersonal snapshot of an entire planet, all of the sudden I see a thing with a heartbeat. I can track one location throughout a year to compare the annual push and pull of snow and plant life there, while in my periphery I see the oscillating wave of life advancing and retreating, advancing and retreating. And I'm reassured by it. 
4348	Yes	 Thefollowing is a guest post from Angela Cox, a graduate student inEnglish at the University of Arkansas. You can follow her on twitter at @KQscholar . She previously wrote for Play the Past on Space Quest . The very title of the Age of Empires series invites postcolonial readings. Reading real-time strategy (RTS) games from postcolonial frames is nothing new: on this blog, for instance, Trevor and Rebecca have both discussed Colonization ; in the journal Game Studies , Tuur Ghys has suggested that, as a genre, historical RTS games tend to reduce history into a consistent progressive narrative of determinism. Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings and its expansion The Conquerors is complicit with colonial interests in the usual ways: gameplay includes the same sort of technology trees employed in the first Age of Empires game, which Ghys examined in detail, and the conquest-centered gameplay celebrates the colonizers perspective over that of the colonized. The list of available civilizations, from the Standard Campaign menu with The Conquerors loaded. (Screenshot obtained using FRAPS) However, I want to use an extension of postcolonial theory, and argue that not only does Age of Empires II ( AoEII ) position itself clearly in a Euro-centric perspective of the past, in so doing it also inscribes present identities onto past identities, constructing past peoples as a cultural other in the same way that synchronous societies can construct each other as other. In the present time, we have consistently constructed the period we call medieval as an other to our modernity, just as during the time of the British empire the so-called Orient was constructed as an other for the West (see Edward Saids book Orientalism ). This othering of time often seems victimless, but it often perpetuates old stereotypes and colonial damage under the guise of research and historicity. In AoEII , the othering of time, which constructs in the game a timeless view of the medieval that is familiar in its construction to the conventional setting of many fantasy and historical narratives, is perpetuated largely through two mechanisms: tokenism and the deployment of uncritical research to establish authority. Tokenism here means creating a display of multiculturalism and cultural sensitivity by including surface features from a number of cultures, but failing to engage in the complexities of cultural interaction in a meaningful way. In AoEII , this appears in the seemingly diverse list of civilizations that the player can choose from, but which make only minimal impact on gameplayeach civilization comes with a token special unit, a civilization bonus of some kind (the Celts in AoEII , for instance, retain sheep more easily, playing into countless stereotypes about Celtic cultures and their relationships with sheep), and, in later ages, customized appearances for buildings. Aside from the language in which units respond, though, there is no noticeable difference to the player if he starts the game as the Britons or as the Japanese. Ttokenism can be dismissed by arguing that the need for balanced play between the civilizations (and for streamlining the amount of data in the game) outweighs the need for nuance and results in a template civilization with small customizations. The game compensates for this in the written documents that accompany gameplayin narrative introductions for scenarios, for instance, or the history section accessible from the main menu that allows the player to read up on (the games interpretations of) the history of each civilization and on medieval culture and warfare in general (by which the game generally means Western European). These displays of research establish AoEII s authority; the game trades on historical simulation for appeal. But all this historical matter is presented uncritically, without citation or acknowledgement of debate, giving the impression that the history is undisputed fact, common knowledge, and exists without cultural imprint. It is an authoritative voice in the game without apology. Such a presentation works, though, because popular culture values that the research is displayed in such a game; the audience of the game does not value the same trappings that academic history would be presented with. This is an environment where historical material is not sorted or criticized, but merely amassed into a clear narrative. What is valued is the wealth rather than the quality of the research, the presentation of it rather than the provenance of it. The tokenism and display of research serve in part to recognize that there are distinctions between the civilizations represented in AoEII and its expansion, but at the same time erase certain cultural identities. In particular, by using the Britons as to represent any of the various peoples who could, at various times, be called British, the game effectively erases the identities of those that have historically been marginalized in Great Britain. Architecture, Units, and Language The overall design and appearance of the game enforce a Western worldview; the main menu screen, for instance, depicts Tudor architecture and conventionally European trappings of knighthood: heraldic shields, Western blacksmith anvils, and so forth. The history screens are framed with parchment-like design, and sepia sketches in a Western art style depicting European nobility and warfare in most cases. The opening video sequences depict western European castles and warfare. In gameplay itself, the ages and the technology trees depict conventional divisions from European history, and the non-European civilizations are shoe-horned into this gameplay model without apology. Thus, regardless of whatever ages might be germane to a given society, they are nevertheless given a Dark Age followed by a Feudal Age, a Castle Age, and finally an Imperial Age. Figure 3: The very European looking main menu screen The game further erases cultural distinctions in having most of the human units look the same (see Figure 4). Buildings all look the same in the Dark Age, suggesting that there are primitive phases in every society that are culturally identicalor even completely without cultural identity. This, in turn, suggests that civilizations that have not advanced (as the game calls it) to at least what the game considers the Feudal Age, according to the games deterministic sense of history, have no culture to speak of. In the later ages, buildings have distinction, and the technology trees open up special units for gameplay according to the selected civilization, but even these distinctions are severely limited. There are not as many visual customizations as there are civilizations, so that the buildings in some civilizations are identical to those in others. This can be particularly egregious when the game groups civilizations together that, in actual history, have contentious margins in which there is cultural conflict. For instance, the Japanese, Chinese, and Korean buildings use the same sequence of visual development, erasing distinctions between these East Asian cultures, as do the buildings for the Britons and the Celtsboth of which take a strikingly English appearance (see Figure 4). Figure 4 &#8211; A comparison of the town center building and peasant units in four selected civilizations in AoEII. Note that the snow effect is an artifact of terrain effects, and the colors are artifacts of player positions. Additionally, each civilizations units respond in spoken languages that are intended to be characteristic of the civilizations being played. These are mostly modern languages as now spoken in the regions that the civilizations are supposed to have occupied. Thus, the Franks speak modern French, a romance language, even though they are, in many instances in the game, intended to represent the Germanic Franks. Although the Celts are called upon to represent the Scottish in the campaigns, they speak modern Irish, conflating the group of cultures that we now call Celtic. The exception to this modern language according to geography paradigm is the Britons. Because the game is set in a medievalized setting, it might break the suspension of disbelief for these units to respond in modern English, and the game would risk casual players accusing it of not having done research. To compensate for the problem of the popular conception of historicity, the game has them speak, according to a Microsoft website , Middle Englishwhich is here a mix of Old English, Latin, and Middle English (or Anglo-Norman). This portrayal is especially problematic because the term Britons does not properly refer to the people who spoke Old English, which would be the Anglo-Saxons and who (as the history section of the game acknowledges) came to Britain later than the Britons; Middle English is the language of the Normans and the Anglo-Saxons that the Normans conquered more than the Britons, who by this point have been twice marginalized. But what is important to the game is not that the language be accurate (which they are not; the translations are also dubious), but rather that it sound right to the audience. It is a conspicuous display of research and multiculturalism rather than accurate or critical research. Critical or rigorous research in the game would actually diminish the authority of the game because the game would not then match the comfortable centralized perspectives of the modern, western audience of the game. The Euro-centric medievalization is comfortable and authentic to the audience because it is comfortableit keeps the medieval as safely other, an identity that the player can comfortably enter without challenging his own identity as modern, and does not present any counternarratives that assert distinct identities for the historical peoples whose names and stories are appropriated for the game. In the case of the language of the Britons units, the cultural harm done here is that it effectively erases the identity of the Britons and subsumes it into the identity of the peoples who later conquered them, even when portrayed pre-conquest, as in the case of having them speak Middle English; furthermore, because the game lacks the cultures that would actually speak Middle English or Old English, the Britons are forced to stand in for them in campaigns merely because of geographic proximity. Campaigns Of course, the game cannot include every civilization, and the lack of Saxons or Normans would not be noteworthy were it not for the fact that so many of the campaigns are based on historical events in the history of Englandbut not necessarily of the Britonsso that the apparent attempt at decentralizing Englands role as empire-builder actually backfires and forces colonized civilizations to stand in for England in these simulations. Thus, William Wallace leads the modern Irish-speaking Celts in rebellion against the Britons, and (in the expansion) William of Normandy leads the Franks against the Goths and the Vikings at Hastings. The narration that introduces the campaigns supplies the historically correct civilization names, although, like most of the narration text in the game, it does so in a conventionally accepted Anglo-centric perspective. In the opening narration for the Battle of Hastings campaign, the first two panels read: Mercenaries and Norman knights look dubiously at the ships that wobble in the black, fog-choked sea. What man is this Duke William to put so many horses on leaky transports? William ignores their questioning glances and stares across the channel in the direction of England. Edward the Confessor is dead and now three men claim rulership of England. Harold he Saxon sits on the English throne and even now hastens to fortify his shores against two invasions. Here, the Normans and Saxons are accounted for in their historical roles. But, because of the limitations of the available civilizations in the game, when the actual gameplay starts there are no Normans or Saxonsthere are instead Franks and Goths, respectively. Figure 6 &#8211; The civilizations used in the Battle of Hastings scenario. Note the lack of Saxons and Normans. (Note also that the player&#8217;s name substitutes for the name of William of Normandy) If the Britons are to represent more generally the British then this seems a deliberate move to remove judgment about actual right to the Island of Britain by making all the claimants to the throne foreignersbut it also leaves Britain an unpopulated land for the claiming. The actual Britons have again been erased, not only subsumed into English (and more generally British) identity, but here actually erased from the land that they inhabited. Likewise, the Franks are being erased at the same time as the Britons, subsumed into more generally the French. The process here is clear: the game uses a close approximation based on geography, and has chosen the more antique names for the inhabitants of that geography, regardless of ethnicity or history. This is evident in the file names for the historical documentsthe file name for the history of the Britons is British. However, it might have been more accurate for the game to have the player take on the English or the British rather than the Britons, since several of the scenarios require the presence of the English: William Wallace, Battle of Hastings, and the Battle of Agincourt. Likewise, it would be more accurate to have the French, rather than the Franks, in order to account for The Battle of Hastings, the Battle of Agincourt, and the Joan of Arc campaign. Almost none of the scenarios involve historically situated Franks or Britons. Histories and Conclusions As part of the display of research, AoEII includes a History section, accessible from the main menu, in which players can Read about the civilizations in the game, medieval warfare, and more. In this section, the game makes recognition of the oversimplifications that are necessary from the exigencies of balanced gameplay, as its narratives recognize the points of contact between the erased civilizations. This would seem to ameliorate the erasures made for gameplay, but in many ways it perpetuates them. Here again the Britons are made to stand in for whoever is occupying the Island of Britain: the historical narration is the conventional story of subsequent conquests that is familiar in traditional, imperialistic histories of England: it begins with Roman withdrawal in 400, after which the British Isles fell into a very dark period of several centuries and, while acknowledging the Celts, resumes history with the Anglo-Saxons, and accounts for Viking and Norman invasion, and ends with the Hundred Years War with France. All this history is, however, titled The Britons (500 on), which makes no recognition that The Britons refer to a Celtic group rather than any of the groups that feature centrally in the narrativea narrative more properly named the English. Furthermore, the sections on medieval warfare and more are, more precisely, about Western European warfare. In fact, it reads something like an old-fashioned 8th grade world history textbook with a conventional western bias. There are sections on the Dark Ages, on Barbarian Invaders and The Fall of Rome and finally on Feudalisms Decline and the Renaissance. These are provided in the general history section, and do not work with the cultures outside of the Euro-centric deterministic view of history, such as the Aztecs or the Chinese, despite being lumped with the other civilizations. Thus, the history section, in its design, marginalizes non-Western European civilizations, even as it makes a tokenistic display of inclusivity by including a section on each playable civilization. In so doing, the game continues to erase the contexts and nuances of history, subsuming it all into a comfortable narrative of the Western descent and rise via a dark ages and a renaissance. Such a narrative affirms our present view of ourselves as progressive and advanced, above the warring civilizations that the game allows us to play-act for a while. Note: This post is a revision of part of a project developed for a class taught by Dr. Joshua Byron Smith at the University of Arkansas. Id like to thank Dr. Smith for his help in preparing this post. 
4349	Yes	 If you follow my blog or Twitter account, you probably know that I&#8217;m a fan of sketchnotes . Sketchnotes are notes taken during presentations or panels that combine doodles and diagrams and text and typography to capture ideas visually. I learned about sketchnotes a few years ago when I started reading more about visual thinking, and I first tried my hand at sketchnoting back in 2011 . I&#8217;ve found the practice incredibly useful, both for focusing my attention during talks and for capturing ideas from talks for later reference and use. You can see some of my conference sketchnotes over on Flickr , and you can find my sermon sketchnotes (yes, I sketchnote at church!) on my &#8220;Doodling in Church&#8221; blog . Last December, I picked up Mike Rohde&#8217;s new book, The Sketchnote Handbook . I&#8217;ve learned a lot about sketchnoting from looking at the notes shared on Sketchnote Army , a blog created by Rohde, and I wanted to see if I could improve my craft by reading Rohde&#8217;s &#8220;illustrated guide to visual note taking.&#8221; Rohde&#8217;s book is an excellent introduction to sketchnoting, and I believe it&#8217;s helped me create more visually interesting notes that do a better job of capturing key ideas from the talks I attend. If you&#8217;re interested in getting into sketchnotes yourself, I highly recommend it. Rohde begins by making a persuasive argument for the value of sketchnoting. Like Rohde, I used to take copious amounts of text notes on talks and presentations, filling up pages and pages in legal pads. And like Rodhe, I almost never looked at these notes after the talks were over. These days, I use sketchnotes to distill the main ideas of a talk into one or two pages of visual notes that I actually remember and reference. Rohde points out that the practice of sketchnoting is supported by cognitive science, particularly dual coding theory . Our brains process verbal and visual information using separate &#8220;channels.&#8221; Taking text notes is a bit like using half your brain power. Capturing ideas in both words and pictures uses more of your brain, helping you better understand and remember those ideas. Sketchnoting isn&#8217;t the only way to listen actively during a talk (I find that live-tweeting helps me do that, too), but it&#8217;s a useful method, and one that produces a product worth sharing and using down the road. Some people are hesitant to try their hand at sketchnoting because they feel they &#8220;can&#8217;t draw.&#8221; Rodhe points out, as others have , that we all drew as kids and that the quality of drawings we produced as kids are completely sufficient for sketchnotes. &#8220;Kids draw to express ideas,&#8221; writes Rohde. &#8220;They don&#8217;t worry about how perfect their drawings are, as long as their ideas are conveyed&#8221; (p. 15). Later in the book, he distinguishes between structure and art . Sketchnotes can feature simple artwork or fancy artwork, but it&#8217;s the structure of the notes that matters most. That&#8217;s why simple lines, circles, arrows, and stick figures can be just as useful as more highly rendered elements of sketchnotes. I should point out here that The Sketchnote Handbook is one giant sketchnote. Rohde combines words and pictures throughout the book very effectively to communicate his ideas and techniques. The book is full of practical advice for the novice sketchnoter. Here are a few takeaways that I&#8217;ve already found valuable: Live sketchnoting requires you to &#8220;cache&#8221; idea. Sometimes you have to listen for several minutes, processing what the speaker is saying, before you&#8217;re ready to put pen to paper. Holding a few ideas in your head while you make sense of them and see where the speaker is going is a key skill.Sit strategically. Look for a seat near the middle of a row, so you&#8217;re not disturbed by latecomers, and try to sit under a light source so you can see your notebook clearly. I follow this latter advice all the time at my church, which likes to keep the room lights low during the sermons.As the talk begins, consider what kind of pattern your notes will take as they fill up the page. Rohde identifies seven common sketchnote patterns: linear, radial, vertical, path, modular, skyscraper, and popcorn. Some talks lend themselves to some patterns more than others, and you can often predict this based on what you know about the format, speaker, and description.Develop your visual library, the doodles, font styles, and icons you use regularly in your sketchnotes. Rohde&#8217;s book is full of inspiration for doing so. I&#8217;ve already added a couple of extra type faces and arrow styles to my sketchnotes thanks to what I&#8217;ve seen in The Sketchnote Handbook . The book includes examples from Rohde&#8217;s sketchnotes, as well as sketchnotes from at least a dozen other practitioners throughout the book. He also includes a set of visual exercises in his last chapter for practice. If there&#8217;s a fault in The Sketchnote Handbook , it&#8217;s the lack of attention to the selection of visual metaphors and the use of schematic diagrams to represent relationships. Rohde spends a page on metaphors, but his examples don&#8217;t shed much light on how one would go about identifying a useful visual metaphor. I&#8217;ve found Garr Reynolds&#8217; Presentation Zen useful for selecting photos that represent ideas metaphorically, and much of that practice translates to sketchnotes. And while Rohde offers great advice on structuring a page of sketchnotes using his seven patterns, he doesn&#8217;t go into how schematic diagrams using circles, boxes, and lines can effectively convey complex relationships to the extent that Dan Roam does in The Back of the Napkin . Even so, I would recommend Mike Rohde&#8217;s handbook to anyone interested in getting started with sketchnotes. You can find out more about the book on his homepage , and you can view a sample chapter online . Rohde has set up a Flickr group for readers of his book to share their sketchnotes, too, which has served as a nice way to develop a community around the book and the practice. 
4350	Yes	 Slavery compensation: Caribbean nations propose Mau Mau model | World news | theguardian.com (in case this was not shared already. via Rosanne Adderley) Tagged: tumblings 
4351	Yes	 Filing this wonderful resource for the next time I introduce students to the subject. Before beginning our journey to learn HTML and CSS it is important to understand the differences between the two languages, their syntax, and some common terminology. As an overview, HTML is a hyper text markup language created to give content structure and meaning. CSS, also known as cascading style sheets, is a presentation language created to give content style and appearance. To put this into laymen terms, HTML determines the structure and meaning of content on a web page while CSS determines the style and appearance of this content. The two languages are independent of one another. CSS should not reside within an HTML document and vice versa. &#8211; Terminology, Syntax,  Introduction &#8211; A Beginner&#039;s Guide to HTML  CSS . 
4352	Yes	I have finally be granted a six month research leave and I am now totally immerse int he writing of The Book.One of the things I am reflecting upon is the weight we give to documentary evidences in textual scholarship.&nbsp;The graph below shows in a simplified (and utterly imprecise) way the collocation of some most important editorial theories with respect to the centrality they give to the documentary evidence (the materiality of the text). Similarly, editorial format can be equally distributed on a continuous line &nbsp;While presenting a very complex reality of theoretical positions in an over simplistic way, these graphs have the advantage of showing the path between text and document as a continuum, with no clearly defined boundaries. The collocation is not scientifically wighted, it is just the approximate collocation I would give to them. Comments? 
4353	Yes	  Dear colleagues:  We all have a lot on our minds these days. Amidst the swirl, I find myself hungry for fresh ideas and timely, clear thinking to push me and to sharpen my views.  var switchTo5x = true;stLight.options({"publisher":"dr-5af9149c-edc-dab5-e9e1-6c571c0b6824"});
4354	Yes	 A nice set of leadership rules by senior VP of Product at Google Jonathan Rosenberg. The ones that resonated most for me: &#8220;be a broken record&#8221;, &#8220;every word matters&#8221;, &#8220;tell stories&#8221;, strategies and tactics&#8221;, and &#8220;interview well&#8221;. In particular, telling stories is underutilized by almost every product team I&#8217;ve encountered. FYI: I&#8217;m writing a new book on how to communicate your product or service called Make them Care! . If you would like to be reminded when it comes out, sign up here . For an excerpt, check out Designing for the Next Step The post Rosenbergs Leadership Rules appeared first on Bokardo . 
4355	Yes	 Hello all, I'm on the hunt for projects/tools/toolsets/good designs that are involved with the digital replication of texts, creating a range of ways to search, interact with, browse and investigate any text. I am based at the university of durham, and what we hope this will enable us to identify are new forms of digital curating and scholarly good practice. Our aim is to be able to outline the important underlying principles for anyone interested in discovering and editing versions of physical texts as a digital entity. Does anyone know of any technologies that we should incorporate into our research?... Or other similar projects / interesting people we should contact?... As part of a larger research we'd like to interview anyone involved with this kind of work - as a Curator, designer etc. Thanks terribly in advance.Mariann 
4356	Yes	 The first Arts Future Book!!! via Tumblr http://charlottefrost.tumblr.com/post/57057537074 
4357	Yes	 Patrick Burns for Deadspin watched 23,000 minutes of SportsCenter , keeping track of the specifics of what the show covered over the year , such as what teams, players, and player descriptions. The graphic above, by my fellow Deadspinner Reuben Fischer-Baum, shows the correlation between winning percentage&mdash;or points, in the case of the possibly nonexistent NHL&mdash;and SportsCenter mentions for teams across the four major leagues.* Our focus here is on just what about a team attracted the attention of SportsCenter's all-seeing eyebeams over the course of a normal season. Our conclusion is that there was a reasonably strong correlation between winning percentage and SportsCenter mentions. It was statistically significant for all leagues except the NHL. Unfortunately, they did not track how many times commentator predictions were completely wrong. 
4358	Yes	 [This post originally appeared at Religion in American History .] The American Antiquarian Society was generous enough to offer me a fellowship this summer, so I took a month to research in the AASs wonderful collections . A fair bit of my time was spent reading through the nearly complete print run of American Tract Society pamphlets from the early to mid-nineteenth century. I wanted to answer a question: did the ATS pamphlets include the sinners prayer, a common feature of twentieth century evangelical tracts? If it did, when did the genre develop? I think I have an answer to that question: yes, the ATS did contribute to the development of the genre of the sinners prayer. More on what I found another time, both here on the blog and in chapter two of the dissertation. Answering that question required a sense of how the ATS tracts were distributed over time, but reading each pamphlets was a poor way to get that sense. Down in the weeds of the pamphletsmost of which sounded alikeit was hard to see how the pamphlets were distributed over time. And whatever patterns I could discern were likely to be unreliable: I was, after all, looking for a particular pattern and was thus at risk of committing a classic historians fallacy. What I needed was an external way of looking at the texts to supplement my close reading. There was a second problem: its really hard to date the ATS tracts. While most of them print a place of publication and a series number, none of them include a date. The date was left off because the tracts were frequently reprinted, sometimes in millions of impressions. For example a popular tract, Legh Richmonds The African Servant , was printed in multiple editions ranging at least from 1816 to 1846, though all bear the series number 60. But S. J. Wolfe of the Antiquarian Society figured out how to date the tracts based on the changing addresses of the ATS. Where I brought a knowledge of theology and religious history to my reading of the ATS tract, and even a general knowledge of the history, economics, and methods of the American Tract Society drawn from other historians work, I had no knowledge of the printing history of the ATS pamphlets. The catalogers at the Antiquarian Society, on the other hand, knew a lot of hard, cold facts about when the pamphlets were published, and who the anonymous authors were. Just as important, they knew when the facts were actually soft and fuzzy, and they had taken pains to represent the ambiguities of the data in the catalog. The solution to the problem of dating the tracts was also the solution to the problem of getting an overview of the tracts. Because the Antiquarian Societys catalog lets users export bibliographic information in a variety of formats, I set out to visualize the ATS printing history using the catalog data. Other scholars have are also using library data to visualize printing: Jim Egan and Jean Bauer have a much more ambitious project using collections from the American Antiquarian Society, the John Carter Brown Library, and the John Hay Library. Method I made a series of visualizations about various questions using Ruby and R. Ill gloss over the code here, but the code and the cleaned-up data is available on GitHub . Heres how I did it: I exported the records for all the relevant items from the AAS catalog. In this case I searched for the records by call number, but for other questions one could search by subject heading, by publisher, and so on. I exported to MARC, since it offered the fullest data, and since the Ruby library for MARC was better than for other formats. I used a Ruby script to munge the MARC records into usable CSV files . I used an R script to analyze the data. The kind of analysis that Im writing about here is not an argument itself, but a step along the way to an argument. Nor do I mean to imply that there is some kind of scientific value in this analysis. Take this for what it is: a behind-the-scenes musing about methodology. Dates One of my questions was when the ATS published its tracts. This is a histogram of the tracts by date. The American Tract Society was founded in 1825 from the merger of the New-York Religious Tract Society and the Boston-based American Tract Society (formerly, the New England Religious Tract Society). The chart shows that the ATS quickly ramped up the publication of tracts in its first five years. Many of these early pamphlets were reprints from British tract societies, such as the Religious Tract Society of London founded in 1799. As was the case with most evangelical institutions from this period, the British had a head start, and evangelicalism was an Anglophone movement with debts to German, French, and Swiss Protestants. The ATS republished works from proven British authors, such as Legh Richmond and Hannah More. After the early series of tracts, beginning in the 1830s, the ATS published more of its own original tracts. The above chart shows the earliest possible date that a given tract was published. But the ATS republished these tracts in many editions throughout the nineteenth century. The point is that the ATS publications tended to be first published in the decade between 1825 and 1835exactly the period when Charles Finney was most active in New York. But unlike Finney, these tracts kept getting the message out for the entirety of the nineteenth century. (The ATS is still publishing today.) And though much of Finneys powerful presentation came from being in his presence, and sitting on his anxious bench, the ATS tracts were carried across the country by colporteurs to places like the pine barrens of New Jersey which the government could barely reach. Subjects A second, obvious, question is, what were these tracts about? Though I had a pretty good sense of the proportions of the various topics, counting the subject headings is a useful correction to possibly haphazard impressions. The ATS catalog entries have 186 distinct subject headings. The distribution of all the subject headings is the familiar long tail. Keep in mind, though, that each tract can have more than one subject heading, so a tract might be about both one of the most obscure topics (Winepoetry) and one of the most common topics (Temperance). The chart is more useful if we limit it to only the twenty most frequently used subject headings. These headings fall into several groups: Tracts which promote conversion: headings like salvation, conversion, repentance, future punishment, and converts certainly fit into this group. Tracts about family life and the education of children. These tracts are also about how to prepare children for conversion. The rest of subject headings, which considered together makes the biggest grouping, are instructions in doctrine and the means of grace. The ATS seems to have thought of its mission as being to edify Christians as much as to evangelize unbelievers. There is one topic which I found to be ubiquitous in reading the tracts, but which is barely noticeable in the subject headings, namely, warnings against infidelity, atheism, and liberal religion. Tracts with the subject heading future punishment were mostly written against Universalists. Other tracts were written against Unitarians. But even though only a few tracts are explicitly about Deists or atheists, they are mentioned or appear as characters in, I would guess, two out of three tracts. Curiously, Catholics are barely mentioned except in a very few patriotic tracts. Historians have long recognized the nineteenth century as the century of Protestant anti-Catholicism, and of course it was. But for the ATS the real bogeyman was not Catholicism but infidelity. On the importance of atheism, skepticism, and free thought for shaping American religion, see my recent historiographic essay and the soon-to-be last chapter of my dissertation. Length Anyone who is familiar with the contemporary evangelical tracts would be surprised at long the ATS tracts are. Where a contemporary tract might be six or eight very small pages with several illustrations, the ATS tracts average sixteen pages of closely printed type and were commonly thirty-two pages long. Besides the main tract that comprised the body, the tracts usually had a paper wrapper which had supplementary materials or another tract in its own right. Bill Brights well-known tract from the 1960s, Do You Know the Four Spiritual Laws , could fit on the wrapper of one of these hefty ATS tracts. Since I am making an argument about how the normative experience of conversion became simplified, I wondered whether the tracts got shorter over time. They did not. Authors The most useful analysis was figuring out who wrote these tracts. Not only were the authors frequently British or occasionally Swiss or German, the authors were frequently from the eighteenth or even the seventeenth centuries. In this histogram Ive charted the number of tracts by the death date of their authors. 1 We can get a sense of who wrote the ATS tracts by looking at most frequently published authors. 2 ranknamediedtracts1Doddridge, Philip1751112Fuller, Andrew1815113Richmond, Legh182784McIlvaine, Charles187375Watts, Isaac174876Edwards, Justin185367More, Hannah183368Newman, William183569Alexander, Archibald1851510Baxter, Richard1691511Bennett, James1862512Burder, George1832513Clark, Daniel A.1840514Malan, Cesar18645 The chart and the table show that most of the authors lived in the nineteenth century contemporaneous with the ATS. This chart does not include anonymous tracts, most of which were from the nineteenth century. Yet the ATS also reprinted works from Puritan divines or English Nonconformists such as John Flavel, John Owen, and Richard Baxter, and also revivalists and evangelicals like theologian Jonathan Edwards, hymn writer Isaac Watts, and most frequently the Nonconformist pastor Phillipp Doddridge. In excerpting and re-framing these works of earlier generations, the ATS was remaking an old tradition into a new tradition. The history of the ATS publications is thus a story of long continuity in an evangelical tradition of heart religion and vital piety, centered on conversion, being gradually remadesometimes intentionally but often through subtle shifts in the meanings of words and drifting in the substance of doctrine or practiceinto a new forms of conversion. Heres to my unsung collaborators: the diligent catalogers at the American Antiquarian Society, some of whom I had the privilege of meeting. I used the death date since there is necessarily quite a few years between ones birth and the time one is publishing. ? The prominence of Isaac Watts is a bit misleading, because he is listed as an author on tracts that contain his hymns, though he might not always be the primary author. But on the other hand, the frequency with which his hymns appear, probably understated in the catalog, is itself a sign of influence. ? 
4359	Yes	Text from a short talk I gave at 'Future Digital', the closing conference of the CHASE Going Digital programme, held on 31 July 2013 at The Open University, Camden Town campus, London. My notes from the event can be viewed on Github Gist. ***** Since March this year I have...
4360	Yes	 I attended the recent ICANN meeting in Durban, South Africa, during which a new milestone in the rollout of the new generic Top Level Domains (gTLDs) was reached: Three companies signed the Registry Agreement while five others signed the Registrar Accreditation Agreement, including registrars fromAustralia, France and the U.S. Registries operate Top-Level Domains; registrars are the entities through which domain names are registered. The three registries applied for Top-Level Domain Names in the Arabic, Chinese and Cyrillic scripts. UCL, as the world&#8217;s leading centre of linguistic expertise in cooperation with SOAS, has been providing linguistic support to ICANN as it makes the Internet&#8217;s addressing system truly international at last. Existing gTLDs include .com, .org and .net, but there are going to be many more exotic ones, especially brand names, over the next few months. 
4361	Yes	 "For sale: Mixing bowl set designed to please a cook".That opening sentence contains 10 words, or "tokens" as linguists often call them. Yet either in its spoken or written form, it really only transmits 4 ideas, or what I imagine Marc Alexander would call " metaphors ", which are concepts that go beyond the words but that express meaning and understanding. They allow us to think in chunks.What?: For saleWhat's for sale?: a mixing bowl setWhat's it like?: designed to pleasePlease whom?: a cook The same sentence represents an attempt to conjure a very measured set of thoughts in another person. I can't take credit for the sentence, but when the author wrote it down, they hoped that you, dear reader, would understand those 4 ideas in the same way as all the other readers, and as they themselves understood them. It's their attempt to control your mind temporarily by drawing upon your understanding and memories associated with those 4 ideas. We may not get all the details exactly the same. Your mixing bowl set may be blue. Mine is seafoam and has spout on each bowl to make it easier to pour your batter into the baking tin. So we likely havn't had exactly the same understanding of the sentence, but our understandings are almost certainly within the limits of what's acceptable to the author.If we add 2 more ideas to the end of the sentence we end up with a failed conjuration:"For sale: Mixing bowl set designed to please a cook with a round bottom for efficient beating".Because of the misplaced modifier, there are now two ways to understand these ideas. Does the bowl have a round bottom for efficient beating, or should the cook who will enjoy the bowl be so proportioned?Visualizations can offer the same ambiguity. Is this an image of a rabbit, or a duck?In this case, it's both, and it's that very ambiguity that the artist intended us to understand. Not all visualizations are intended to teach us something specific, or to so carefully conjure a series of ideas in our minds. That's wholly too modernist for some. Visualizations can be exploratory, used by researchers to come to a different understanding of their data by slicing it in lots of ways until they see something interesting. Or, as I demonstrated in an earlier post, can be a quick way to get a distant look at a large amount of data by reducing it to something easier to digest . In that sense graphing can aid the discovery process of research even before the conclusions are ready to be shared with the world.But when it comes to visualizations for academic publication, unintentional ambiguity is something we must strive to avoid. If done well, there should only be one proper way of interpreting the visualization. It's our job to create something that can conjure specific thoughts in the reader's head based on the graph's shape, colour, size, orientation, etc. And it should go without saying that those conjured thoughts should be grounded in rigorous research.As academics we spend so much time and care on our prose, and even our footnotes. Usually (we hope) that prose comes out lucid and if we're lucky, is enjoyable to read. One of the ways we ensure that is through peer review. The editors help us find people who are willing to take the time to read what we've written and provide constructive feedback upon it.Yet few of us feel we have the aptitude to offer similar feedback on visualizations. We're not visual artists and so we can be forgiven for using colour in confusing ways , or for thinking a pie chart with 100 categories is a good way to express an idea. As I mentioned previously, I'm quite confident that in the present climate, unique looking or impressive visualizations will slip through peer review unchecked, lest the reviewer's lack of expertise in visualization be exposed by making a comment to the effect of " I don't under stand this graph ".Now, far be it from me to suggest we only use column graphs or line graphs, or that we do X, but not Y. I think it's fantastic that so many people out there are pushing the boundaries of what we can achieve via visualization. The folks at the Guardian Data Blog do great work on bringing data to life, and are a wonderful place for anyone seeking inspiration. Instead, what I would suggest is that as creators of academic visualizations, we make sure our graphs are reviewed, even if our reviewers cannot or will not do so in the traditional peer review process.The way I'd propose we do that is to show our friends and colleagues what we've made as often as we can, including during the drafting process. But it's not just about showing them. We have to ask the right questions. Let's use the graph below as a (relatively poor) example of a visualization that we might like to get feedback on. Please note that this is not a graph showing real data about the cost of grain in the 19th century. It's just an example. Most of us likely want to ask "Do you like my graph?" or "What do you think of this?"A more productive starting point is probably: Can you explain this graph to me? You aren't going to be there when your reader or viewer is interpreting your graph. The best way to find out what set of ideas are going to form in their mind is to ask them to explain their thought process out loud.In this case, I had intended to show the seasonal difference in the price of grain in London and Edinburgh over a 20 year period. You may not have picked up on that, which means I need to fix something.Don't be affraid to ask explicitly: Is there any element of this graph that you do not inherently understand? Make sure they can explain the labels on both axes (if relevant). If they don't know where you're getting those values from you may need to rethink your axis labels. You'd be forgiven for asking what the numbers on the Y-axis represent in the example. I didn't label it, so how could you know?When you start experimenting with your visualizations, you're bound to come up with ideas you think are clear, but that just don't translate into ideas that your reader can interpret. Looking at the sample graph, I wouldn't fault you for asking what the top and bottom line of the curves represent. They're supposed to be two line graphs: one representing Edinburgh prices, and one representing London. I've shaded in the space between the lines to emphasize the size of the gap. If this is in fact two lines, then which one is Edinburgh? Which one is London? And when they overlap, how do I know which bit corresponds to which line? Do they cross, or merely meet and diverge again? I havn't made the fact that this is a line graph obvious because the lines aren't distinguishable from the shape formed by the colours. Speaking of colour, you'll want to make sure you havn't come up with a palette that is going to make interpreting your graph difficult for someone with colour blindness. There are many different forms of colour-blindness, so it pays to run a test on your graph. You can do this online by using a " Colour Blindness Simulator " on your finished image.Sticking with the negatives, ask your tester which element of the graph they like the least. For the sample graph, they may say they don't like the colours, or the font, or the legend. Personally, I think using --------&gt; to represent arrows looks lazy. Everyone will have their own opinions on what's worst about your work. If you know what turns people off you can make visualizations that people like. And if they like the visualization, readers are more likely to engage with its message. With this in mind, go ahead and ask if they like your graph. Or if there are any elements of the graph that they particularly fancy. Just as with your prose, it may take a few iterations and a number of different opinions from colleagues before a graph says to others what you think it says in your own mind. Just because you submitted a graph with your article and the peer-reviewers didn't comment on it doesn't mean you've done a good job of clearly expressing your ideas visually.And one last question to ask, just to make sure your readers get the right message and aren't distracted: does the shape of the graph make it look like anything unrelated? Graphs and visualizations have tremendous potential for expressing ideas in academic research, but it's not a skill we're typically taught in school. Most of us learn on the job, or emulate graphs we saw elsewhere that we found effective. Taking the time to ensure the graphs you create transmit the right ideas to your reader is good scholarship. Knowing the right questions to ask makes it that much easier to reach that result.Questions to ask about a visualization:Can you explain this graph to me?Are there any elements you do not inherently understand?Can you explain what each axis shows (if applicable)Will people with colour blindness be able to differentiate your colour palette? (check online)What do you like least about the graph?Do you like the graph / a particular element of the graph?Does the shape of the graph make it look like anything distracting? 
4362	Yes	 openobjects.blogspot.jp - Mia RidgeCrikey. Day three.&nbsp;Where do I start? We've made great progress on our mysterious tool. And it has a name! Some cool design motifs are flowing from that, which in turn means we can really push the user experience design issues over the next day and a half (though we've already been making lots of design decisions on the hoof so we can keep dev moving). The Outreach team have also been doing some great communications work, including a Press Release&nbsp;and have lots more in the pipeline. The Dev/De...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @briancroxall: 'Halfway through. Day three of #OWOT .' openobjects.blogspot.com/2013/08/halfwa&hellip; 01.08.2013 09.11.27 @mia_out: 'Halfway through. Day three of #OWOT .' openobjects.blogspot.com/2013/08/halfwa&hellip; 01.08.2013 09.09.55 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4363	Yes	 techcrunch.com - Josh Constine 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Your standard iPhone camera app is actually pretty slow, able to take just three to six photos per second at 8 megapixels each. But with SnappyCam 3.0, you can shoot 20 full-resolution photos per second thanks to a breakthrough in discrete cosine transform JPG science by its inventor. Twenty frames per second is fast enough to capture shot-by-shot animations or every gruesome detail of an extreme sports crash.SnappyCam costs $0.99 and lets you hold down your finger to take a constant stream of...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @todrobbins: My first thought: that can't be real. My second thought: holy crap, that's amazing. m.techcrunch.com/2013/07/31/fas&hellip; 01.08.2013 09.44.39 @DimitrisTzouris: RT @ TechCrunch : Scientific Breakthrough Lets iOS App SnappyCam Take 20 Full-Res Photos Per Second tcrn.ch/15wvEaU by @ joshconstine 01.08.2013 03.00.43 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @TechCrunch: Scientific Breakthrough Lets iOS App SnappyCam Take 20 Full-Res Photos Per Second tcrn.ch/15wvEaU by @ joshconstine 01.08.2013 02.56.40 
4364	Yes	 twitter.com Instantly connect to what's most important to you. Follow your friends, experts, favorite celebrities, and breaking news. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @jmcclurken: Presenters! Consider this slide layout. It accounts for worst-case likely layout of a room (low screen, flat seating) pic.twitter.com/07vkebZLAz 31.07.2013 23.49.04 @tjowens: Presenters! Consider this slide layout. It accounts for worst-case likely layout of a room (low screen, flat seating) pic.twitter.com/07vkebZLAz 31.07.2013 23.36.54 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @alicedaer: Presenters! Consider this slide layout. It accounts for worst-case likely layout of a room (low screen, flat seating) pic.twitter.com/07vkebZLAz 31.07.2013 23.35.38 
4365	Yes	 briancroxall.net - Brian 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Two hours ago, I had to ask someone what day it was. But now that it&rsquo;s almost midnight, I&rsquo;m finding myself drawn once again to the blank page of the blog post. Or rather, I appear to be treating the idea of blogging every day of One Week | One Tool&nbsp;as some sort of dare with myself. What follows is an account that is perhaps more trees than forest; if you want to get to the larger arboretum of what I&rsquo;ve learned today, skip to the end.As I promised at the end of yesterday&rsquo;s post, today found the...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @mia_out: RT @ briancroxall : Day 3 of #owot : Of Names and Stories and Gophers. The best lesson I&rsquo;ve learned yet! bit.ly/169ju6N #owotleaks 01.08.2013 09.33.26 @briancroxall: Day 3 of #owot : Of Names and Stories and Gophers. The best lesson I&rsquo;ve learned yet! bit.ly/169ju6N #owotleaks 01.08.2013 09.27.41 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4366	Yes	 bbc.co.uk 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;The Queen was expected to urge Britons to pray and remain united and resolute in the event of the &quot;madness&quot; of nuclear war, papers from 1983 show. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @Airminded: &quot;This madness of war is once more spreading.&quot; Queen's speech prepared by UK in 1983 for outbreak of World War 3. bbc.in/13BbcBx 01.08.2013 09.25.18 @archivesopen: 'WWIII Queen's speech' text revealed bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politi&hellip; 01.08.2013 06.58.06 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @caleb_crain: &quot;This madness of war is once more spreading.&quot; Queen's speech prepared by UK in 1983 for outbreak of World War 3. bbc.in/13BbcBx 01.08.2013 08.11.35 
4367	Yes	 img.weburbanist.com A sprawling abandoned Walmart in McAllen, Texas has been transformed into the nation's largest public library, with self-check-out kiosks and an art gallery. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @tcarmody: An abandoned Walmart converted into the world's largest library, in McAllen, TX (town @ Atul_Gawande made famous) img.weburbanist.com/wp-content/web&hellip; 01.08.2013 08.16.35 @mcburton: Abandoned Walmart transformed into amazing public library. I hope this becomes a trend. img.weburbanist.com/wp-content/web&hellip; 01.08.2013 07.41.13 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @dansinker: AMAZING. RT @ Sam__Weller : When a former big box store becomes something important: the world's largest library. img.weburbanist.com/wp-content/web&hellip; 01.08.2013 08.09.46 
4368	Yes	 deadline.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;EXCLUSIVE: Paul Giamatti and FX are in the early stages of a limited series on the spark that started the fire of the Civil War. I've learned that Untitled posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @tcarmody: Paul Giamatti is making @ TonyHorwitz 's John Brown bio, 'Midnight Rising,' into an FX miniseries. bit.ly/17jZBZF #HisSoulisMarchingOn 01.08.2013 06.41.24 @YAppelbaum: Paul Giamatti is making @ TonyHorwitz 's John Brown bio, 'Midnight Rising,' into an FX miniseries. bit.ly/17jZBZF #HisSoulisMarchingOn 01.08.2013 06.27.58 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4369	Yes	An article and video about La Cura has just been published on Il Tirreno Continue reading &#8594; 
4370	Yes	 As a commercial river guide, if you demonstrate any real aptitude at one point or another you will be assigned to be Trip Leader. Just like it sounds, that&#8217;s where the buck stops, and a lot of responsibility comes with it. Your first and foremost responsibility is for the safety of everyone on the trip. You are of course focused mainly on the passengers, as they mostly have no idea what they have signed up for. You can expect that the guides do, but they bear watching too. You can just take my word on that. Once safety has been assured as well as one can in the wild, the next focus of your attention is on fun . Thankfully, fun is pretty hard to deny on just about any river trip. And I&#8217;ve been on a river trip when it has snowed , and I still had an awesome time. If you do things right, then learning is a big part of any river trip &#8212; and it often comes disguised as fun. For most people, there is so much to be learned on a river trip. There may be new trees and plants and wildlife that can be pointed out and named. The local geology is likely not something visitors are knowledgeable about. Even the river itself, and what makes currents, eddies, waves and holes. For me leading trips came quickly in my career as a guide. First I led trips on the Stanislaus and American rivers in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada in California. Then, within a little over a year, I was the trip leader of an 18-day Grand Canyon private (not with a commercial company) trip. This was because I was the most experienced guide on the trip, and had even been down the Colorado through the Grand Canyon the year before &#8212; my inaugural year of becoming a commercial guide &#8212; on a 30-day trip (these are no longer permitted). You might say I learned quickly what it meant to be a trip leader in the wilderness. Without the solid background of training with a commercial river company, I don&#8217;t know what I would have done. But as it was, that provided the essential foundation from which I could build the necessary knowledge to run a Grand Canyon trip safely. Also, I had my one previous trip in &#8220;The Canyon&#8221; from which to draw. This turned out to be essential, as that was when I learned about the &#8220;tides&#8221; of the Colorado River. The Colorado River exits the bottom of Glen Canyon Dam just upstream from where you put-in the boats to run the Colorado River through the Grand Canyon. Since the flow of the river is completely controlled by the dam, they release enough water for recreational purposes during the day and then dial the flow way back at night. On the river this means you could have a vertical displacement change in the river of something like 2-4 vertical feet  depending on a variety of factors. The practical effect of this is if you tie your boat up to shore at night, it might be beached 30 feet away from the river in the morning. If you have ever had to drag a raft this far you will know what a drag (sorry!) this can be. So part of a trip leader&#8217;s responsibility on The Canyon was to tie the boats properly &#8212; which often meant with plenty of slack in the line and a secondary line through the stern of every boat. And then, the last thing you did before falling into bed was to check on the boats. If any were beginning to beach, you pushed them out into the water. You also checked to make sure the lines were good. Only then could you rest. And if you were drunk, it just meant you had to be really careful, but you still had to do it. The parallel with libraries is probably obvious. If you&#8217;ve ever had a position with &#8220;where the buck stops&#8221; responsibility, you never forget what that means. And whether you always hold a position like that or not, you can&#8217;t unlearn it. Whether it is likely your responsibility or not, you won&#8217;t be able to help yourself. You will be out there at night, with the water lapping on shore, checking the boats with a flashlight. Because you know it needs to be done and you know you&#8217;re good for it. &nbsp; Photo: Frequent OARS trip leader Scotty Stevens giving his passengers a safety talk on the Stanislaus River, late 1970s. Photo by Roy Tennant, courtesy of the Stanislaus River Digital Archive. 
4371	Yes	 laura-in-libraryland.tumblr.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;Experiments in Art History: Teaching with Digital Tools: Twentieth Century Female Artists and Data Visualization with Undergrads http://bit.ly/Znma03 naraelle: &ldquo; Awesome project highlighting the roles... posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @retius: Experiments in Art History: Teaching with Digital Tools: Twentieth Century Female Artists and Data... tmblr.co/Z7b0psr7DUPA 01.08.2013 07.04.24 @library_laura: Experiments in Art History: Teaching with Digital Tools: Twentieth Century Female Artists and Data... tmblr.co/Z7b0psr7DUPA 01.08.2013 07.03.47 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4372	Yes	wrong parser
4373	Yes	 designtaxi.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt; posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @ilya: The Ultimate Spinny Bar concept! #SBHS RT Dubai Skyscraper Proposal Has Independently Rotating Floors zite.to/13vlvYD 01.08.2013 06.46.24 @rjstein: The Ultimate Spinny Bar concept! #SBHS RT Dubai Skyscraper Proposal Has Independently Rotating Floors zite.to/13vlvYD 01.08.2013 06.41.07 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4374	Yes	 matthew-lavin.com posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @foundhistory: Matthew Lavin on Alan Liu's Digital Humanitiesmatthew-lavin.com/2013/06/though&hellip; 01.08.2013 07.22.45 @mkirschenbaum: Matthew Lavin on Alan Liu's Digital Humanitiesmatthew-lavin.com/2013/06/though&hellip; 01.08.2013 07.19.29 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4375	Yes	 daftaripara.org Snapshots of the everyday, of labour and life. These stills invite a closer look at the processes, objects, machines,&nbsp;skills&nbsp;and bodies that keep Daftaripara moving. posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @whitneytrettien: Global book culture --&gt; RT @ MitchFraas : Pictures from Calcutta's binding quarter via daftaripara.org/stills/ 01.08.2013 06.46.53 @icpetrie: Pictures from Calcutta's binding quarter via @ offog daftaripara.org/stills/ see the whole project at daftaripara.org 01.08.2013 06.32.47 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4376	Yes	 Two hours ago, I had to ask someone what day it was. But now that it&#8217;s almost midnight, I&#8217;m finding myself drawn once again to the blank page of the blog post. Or rather, I appear to be treating the idea of blogging every day of One Week | One Tool as some sort of dare with myself. What follows is an account that is perhaps more trees than forest; if you want to get to the larger arboretum of what I&#8217;ve learned today, skip to the end. As I promised at the end of yesterday&#8217;s post, today found the OWOT team putting their heads down and getting earnestly to work on a lot of the different parts of the project. And at this point, it&#8217;s hard to believe that we didn&#8217;t know what we were building 36 hours ago. The dev / design team continued forging ahead on the path that they had identified for themselves yesterday, working pretty solidly from the morning until the end of the day when they showed the whole team a working demo to thunderous applause. The Outreach team decided to start producing text: press release materials, lists of people that we will be peppering with the announcement come Friday. Perhaps even more importantand much more difficultthey worked to come up with the name for our tool. But waitI&#8217;m not necessarily on either of those teams. So what did I do all day? Largely, my day of project management has consisted in moving back and forth between teams, working on different tasks. The Outreach team yesterday came up with a couple of user scenarios to help us all make better sense of how the tool would be used. I volunteered to translate the scenarios and the different conversations that I had heard in conversations with the dev/design team. After managing Networking Belfast , Views of Rome , and other DiSC projects , I&#8217;ve found that I kind of enjoy writing user stories, making sure that I&#8217;m making something that is testable as well as covering all of the aspects of the tool development that we&#8217;re going to need to have to produce the experience that all of the team has imagined. Mia ,the lead of dev/design team and I then sat down and talked through the different stories, prioritizing and ruling some of them as likely out of scope. After this, Meghan and I sat down to talk with Tom Scheinfeldt , Patrick Murray-John , and Sean Takats about software licenses. CHNM tends to use the Affero General Public License (AGPL) . At Emory we&#8217;ve tended towards Apache , so it was good to learn about other options that exist. Meghan and I got to work sussing out the different software libraries that are being used by our development team. I also took on a task from Mia to begin stubs for the documentation we&#8217;ll need to add to our GitHub repo . Somewhere in here, we got some amazing Bolivian salteas for lunch. &#8230;although come to think of it, Sean brought in the food, so we clearly couldn&#8217;t talk about licenses until after lunch. Hmm. Let&#8217;s move on, shall we? Before lunch the Outreach team had provided an overview of both the names that they were considering for the tool as well as metaphors that they were trying to use to understand the whole experience and that were guiding selection of the name. After lunch, they turned their attention to trying to finish off one of the press releases. They had decided that in addition to the press release for the product launch that OWOT&#8217;s emphasis on process over product might be of interest to certain media outlets. In his role as head of Outreach, Jack Dougherty had drafted this text, and that team and Meghan and I workshopped it down to hone the message. Simultaneously, we were talking about what press outlets might be interested in this particular angle. It turns out that thanks to my work with ProfHacker I knew a lot of the people that Ray Palin had identified as worth reaching out to. After finalizing the press release and getting it posted in one version to the CHNM website , I started pounding out emails, both formal and informal. There may have been some curse words thrown when my I couldn&#8217;t connect to my email server and when my keyboard suddenly refused to type. But eventually they got moving. While we were working on all of this, the Outreach team had returned to working on names. Although the team had spent a lot of time so far, Amrys Williams was up for the challenge. More metaphors, more stories, and more throwing hippos at walls to see if they would stick. And you know what, we finally got it. It took 121 name ideasincluding, somehow, &#8220;Croxalizer&#8221; [sic]but we&#8217;ve got a name! We bought some domains, we registered some email addresses and got a Twitter account. We&#8217;re getting ready. That said, while the name was being centered on was the moment of my maximal email frustration. So the moment didn&#8217;t feel as victorious as I would have liked. We then broke for dinner at a great Thai place where we found some amazing objects that are far more connected to our tool than we could have ever guessed. We then repaired to the Mason Inn, where we broke into teams and planned our schedules for tomorrow. Meghan and I acted as go-betweens on both teams, seeing who they would need from the others in order to get their work done in a timely fashion. I wrapped up the evening sitting down with Mia and half of her team, looking again at the user stories to see what was done and what was now out of scope, as well as reviewing other lists of still to be accomplished tasks. In there, I did what I could to take tasks off of Mia&#8217;s plate, to make sure everyone had water and power, and to ping Rebecca Sutton Koeser every 15 minutes about going to bed rather than continuing to code. So that&#8217;s a lot of detail about what I&#8217;ve done today. What does it all add up to? First, I think it&#8217;s safe to say that a big part of tool development ends up being about stories. Coming up with a name requires thinking about the story that that name ties into, about the experience as a whole. The press release is also about a story. Jack did a great job coming up with a rhetorical angle for pitching the process as something that is just as interesting to report on as the final product. And of course there were those user stories. These are different from the other stories and are exercises in precise descriptive prose. In some ways, I think I am drawn to these activities given my training in literature. I like thinking about what words can do and how they convey meaning, and then I like trying to pin those words down in such a way so that my meaning is clear to those with whom I&#8217;m communicating. I also think that building a tool depends in some parts on gophers. In our role of project managers, Meghan and I are doing what we can to take care of the needs of the different teams. One of those needs is of course managing the to-do list. But it also meant hunting down a new computer for a team member or doing that aforementioned &#8220;it&#8217;s bedtime&#8221; pinging. What this experience is helping me realize is how deeply satisfying I find it to be helpful to other people in these ways. It&#8217;s more than simply feeling useful (when I&#8217;m not a coder and when I&#8217;m clearly not the most experience project manager when compare to others on the team); it&#8217;s about building a team through considerate interaction. Making a project, it turns out, is just as much about building a team as it is about anything else. That might not be a profound insight; it is, after all, 1:10 am as I finish drafting this. But it&#8217;s a new one to me, and I will say that it alone makes this whole experience worth it. We&#8217;ve got a lot more work to do tomorrow. See you in 24. (By now I&#8217;m guessing, dear reader, that you&#8217;re canny enough to know not to click on that link above to our GitHub repo. Still, I couldn&#8217;t resist.) EDIT: Just to be sure you&#8217;re not missing anything, there are other OWOT members blogging on a daily basis. Check out posts on day one from Jack , Mia , Amanda , and Amrys ; day two from Jack , Mia , and Amrys ; and day three from Mia and Amrys (more to come, I&#8217;m sure). 
4377	Yes	Crikey. Day three.&nbsp;Where do I start? We've made great progress on our mysterious tool. And it has a name! Some cool design motifs are flowing from that, which in turn means we can really push the user experience design issues over the next day and a half (though we've already been making lots of design decisions on the hoof so we can keep dev moving). The Outreach team have also been doing some great communications work, including a Press Release &nbsp;and have lots more in the pipeline. The Dev/Design team did a demo of our work for the Outreach team before dinner - it's amazing how far we've come since lunchtime yesterday. &nbsp;We still need to do a full deployment (server issues, blah blah), and I'll feel a lot better when we've got that process working and then running smoothly, so that we can keep deploying as we finish major features up to a few hours before launch rather than doing it at the end in a mad panic. There's lots to tackle on many different fronts, and it may still end up in a mad rush at the end, but right now, the&nbsp;Dev/Design&nbsp;team is humming along. I've been so impressed with the way people have coped with some pretty intense requirements for working with unfamiliar languages or frameworks, and with high levels of uncertainty in a chaotic environment. &nbsp;I'm trying to keep track of things in Github (with Meghan and Brian as brilliant 'got my back' PMs) and keep the key current tasks on a whiteboard so that people know exactly what they need to be getting done at any time. Now that the Outreach team have worked through the key descriptive texts, name and tagline we'll need to coordinate content production - particularly documentation, microcopy to guide people through the process - really closely, which will probably get tricky as time is short and our tasks are many, but given the people gathered together for OWOT, I have faith that we'll make it work. Things I have learnt today: despite two years working on a PhD in digital humanities/digital history, I still have a brain full of technical stuff - it's a relief to realise it hasn't atrophied through lack of use. I've also realised how much the work I've done designing workshops and teaching since starting my PhD have fed into how I work with teams, though it's hard right now to quantify exactly *how*. Finally, it's re-affirmed just how much I like making things - but also that it's important to make those things in the company of people who are scholarly (or at least thoughtful) about subjects beyond tech and inter-disciplinary, and ideally to make things that engage the public as well as researchers. As the end of my PhD approaches, it's been really useful to step back into this world for a week, and I'll definitely draw on it when figuring out what to do after the PhD. If someone could just start a CHNM in the UK, I'd be very happy.I still can't tell you what we're making, but I *can* tell you that one of these photos in this post contains a clue (and they all definitely have nothing to do with mild lightheadedness at the end of a long day). 
4378	Yes	by Verena Roberts My learning transformation occurred when I participated in Alec Couros&rsquo; week for the change11 MOOC facilitated by George Siemens , Stephen Downes , and Dave Cormier . I was fascinated by the ease with which I could register, interact, and connect with leading figures in educational technology. As soon as Alec Couros &rsquo;s webinar was over, I said to myself: I want to figure out how to design and create MOOCs for K-12 learning environments. The concept that learners of all ages could learn together based on individual passions rather than through set institutional norms appealed me. It seemed obvious that using social media and building networks was the way to engage learners. Networked learning ignited a fire inside of me to try to change a system. 
4379	Yes	 The first version of this cheat sheet was prepared for a talk given at the NEH, ODH Project Directors&#8217; meeting (September 2012). I revised it in its current form for the Another Week | Another Tool ODH Summer Institute, July 2013, and is available also as a Google Doc: http://bit.ly/OWOTProjectOutreach . Outreach: is intentional;is integral to a tools/projects success. Outreach team must be equal stakeholders in the building process;is not only about publicity, the job includes testing and making the tool accessible to targeted audiences;is user advocacy. Four components of a good outreach strategy:Plan | People | Presence | Press Plan Outreach is intentional, it requires a plan (most grant programs require you have one, too):Articulate primary audiences, secondary audiencesCreate user scenarios.Learn about those audiences: where do they go for information, how can you best reach them.How can you best teach them about the tool later?Think about online and analog ways to reach people.Plan to extend outreach duties well beyond the official launch of the prototype/tool/software: workshops, demos, support. People Outreach must be someone&#8217;s job.Outreach folks must be equal stakeholders in the building process, and are identified as the project begins. This job is not over even after a grant ends&#8230;unfortunately.Outreach must be involved in testing, and in UX/UI advocating for intended users during development.Test like you know nothing about the project. Presence Establish and maintain a stable, digital presence for the project immediately.Name the Tool&#8211;do some research on alternative meanings for names (check Urban Dictionary).Buy domains&#8230;try to scoop up as many as you can once youre committed to a name.Grab the twitter handle.Design a logo and start using it.Build a project website, and only launch the site when you have content and something to say. Pages must contain words and sentences! Do not expound about the PIs CV. Focus on what it is, what it does, what it can do, and who on TEAM is building, creating, testing.Start a blog for regular project updates, process posts, celebrationsTeach others how to use the tool with online Documentation. User guides help teach new users how this works (different formats WP pages, a Wiki, GitHub pages).Format and location of this documentation depends heavily on the users and the software.You might have multiple places to find help, depending on what user needs: Omeka End User Documentation | Omeka Developer Codex | Omeka.net Users | Anthologize User Guide | Scripto Users Guide Give users a place to ask questions and give feedbackAppropriateness depends on users, scope of possible questions, level of technical knowledge required: Omeka devs (Google Group) | End User Forums (BBPress) | Contact form for Net | Anthologize End Users (Google Group) | Anthologize Devs (Google Group)Together with project managers and developers set goals and be ready to release/launch on those dates.Perhaps you want to debut at a big conference or another significant event. Hard deadlines are good. Press Before a release, prepare your publicity.Give press previews to new tool by finding a writer, podcaster who might speak to your intended audiences.Blog progress and launch news, tweet it, get others to retweet.Incorporate electronic, print, social media, in-person. You may have institutional public affairs officers who can help.Prepare analog stuff: Showcase your logo, your URL and let folks show their support for your project w/a sticker, bookmark, pen, mug.Bookmarks can be cheap (500, 4-color, 1-color on backside, under $100 w/shipping). FOLLOW-THROUGH: Answer emails, phone calls.Check forums regularly.Respond to questions.Incorporate user feedback into the tool.Present at conferences.Give a workshop.Encourage others to use it and teach others.Leave a SWAG trail when you travel.
4380	Yes	 chroniclingamerica.loc.gov posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @Musebrarian: UPDATE! Chronicling America now w/ 6.6m pp from 30 state awardees. Explore content from our newest states MI, WV, IA! 1.usa.gov/hylX0 01.08.2013 02.33.36 @NEH_ODH: UPDATE! Chronicling America now w/ 6.6m pp from 30 state awardees. Explore content from our newest states MI, WV, IA! 1.usa.gov/hylX0 01.08.2013 02.19.33 @brettbobley: UPDATE! Chronicling America now w/ 6.6m pp from 30 state awardees. Explore content from our newest states MI, WV, IA! 1.usa.gov/hylX0 01.08.2013 00.19.26 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4381	Yes	 rid.olfo.org posted by friends: &nbsp;(2) @jenterysayers: One of my favorite writing experiences yet? Working with @ iamdan for Rhetoric and the Digital Humanities (rid.olfo.org/rdh/). 01.08.2013 04.09.47 @ridolfoj: .@ billhd and I will update the final TOC in mid-September, but here's a preview - rid.olfo.org/rdh 31.07.2013 23.42.14 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(1) @billhd: One of my favorite writing experiences yet? Working with @ iamdan for Rhetoric and the Digital Humanities (rid.olfo.org/rdh/). 01.08.2013 05.56.58 @billhd: RT @ ridolfoj : .@ billhd and I will update the final TOC in mid-September, but here's a preview - rid.olfo.org/rdh #RDH 31.07.2013 23.46.33 
4382	Yes	wrong parser
4383	Yes	 mmuresearchblog.wordpress.com - Germaine Loader 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Arts and Humanities Research Council and the Economic and Social Research Council have announced that they will only support PhD students in strategic areas.The councils say that, from 1 November, no funding will be provided for project-linked students on applications to the ESRC&rsquo;s responsive-mode research grants scheme and the AHRC&rsquo;s open-call research grants scheme. The change, announced on 25 July, brings them in line with all of the other research councils except the Engineering...&nbsp; show all text posted by friends: &nbsp;(3) @cryurchin: Bad news for future UK PhD funding: AHRC/EHRC won't fund adding a PhD to a project except on certain targeted schemes wp.me/p337Be-e4 01.08.2013 02.38.26 @cemathieson: Can't believe this!! 'AHRC and ESRC drop inclusion of PhD studentships in open research bids': mmuresearchblog.wordpress.com/2013/07/31/ahr&hellip; 01.08.2013 01.49.42 @juspar: Bad news for future UK PhD funding: AHRC/EHRC won't fund adding a PhD to a project except on certain targeted schemes wp.me/p337Be-e4 01.08.2013 01.43.31 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(0) 
4384	Yes	 nature.com 200)  (this.width &gt;= this.height) ? 200: true); max-height: 200px; height: expression((this.height &gt; 200)  (this.height &gt;= this.width) ? 200: true); border: none;'/&gt;When a single genetic mutation first let ancient Europeans drink milk, it set the stage for a continental upheaval. posted by friends: &nbsp;(1) @aehdeschaine: &quot;When a single genetic mutation first let ancient Europeans drink milk, it set the stage for a continental upheaval.&quot; nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; 01.08.2013 03.57.50 posted by friends of friends: &nbsp;(3) @Skud: Ace interdisciplinary study of the biology, history and consequences of being able to digest milk. nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; /via @ edyong209 01.08.2013 03.07.25 @debcha: @ thisischristina @ nicolatwilley Signal-boosting this, ICYMI: nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; 01.08.2013 01.54.26 @debcha: Ace interdisciplinary study of the biology, history and consequences of being able to digest milk. nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; /via @ edyong209 01.08.2013 01.46.53 @GreatDismal: &quot;When a single genetic mutation first let ancient Europeans drink milk, it set the stage for a continental upheaval.&quot; nature.com/news/archaeolo&hellip; 01.08.2013 01.42.11 
4385	Yes	 I didn&#8217;t expect a pseudo-Elizabethan rendering of Star Wars to be great literature, but the R2 soliloquies add an unexpectedly amusing new narrative layer. So far, I can say the &#8220;Chorus&#8221; character is overused, too frequently walking onstage and delivering lines of exposition that ought instead be woven into the expanded dialogue between the characters. An Elizabethan drama was a medium for the spoken word, and having a narrator walk on to TELL the audience about the scene is a poor substitute for having a character weave details from the environment into a complex verbal expression of emotion. 
4386	Yes	 The Mathers Museum of World Cultures (MMWC) has a new newsletter. The cover for MMWC #1 is shown above. Clicking on it should take you to the whole issue as it appears on the online publishing platform Issuu . To add the newsletter to your hoard of PDFs, you can download it from the MMWC website . For the long haul, we will soon add the newsletter to the museum&#8217;s &#8220;community&#8221; in the IUScholarWorks Repository . Before talking about the newsletter as infrastructure, I want to thank MMWC Assistant Director Judy Kirk for her great work getting it edited and launched. This is a small summer issue that recaps some recent MMWC developments. A forward-looking fall issue will follow it very soon. While thanking Judy, I want to also thank the whole MMWC community&#8211;staff, volunteers, students, researchers, advisory board members, donors&#8211;for the work that we begin reporting in this first issue of the newsletter. One of the museum&#8217;s accomplishments of the first half of 2013 was the establishment of an ambitious strategic plan. One thread running through that plan is work aimed at putting into place a range of kinds of museum &#8220;infrastructure.&#8221; Some of this will be very visible to the museum&#8217;s friends and supporters, other kinds of infrastructure will help the museum do its behind-the-scenes work more effectively. As I can, I will try to tell the story of our infrastructure work here. I have found the public reporting of my colleagues and of peer-institutions extremely helpful and my aim here is to reciprocate in appreciation for what I have learned from them. (For a recent example, consider this great account of the building of a teaching lab at the Penn Museum .) Our new newsletter represents a beginning, a first start. We know that it will mature and change over time. In software-speak, it will be in perpetual beta . One aspect of this status, is that the newsletter&#8217;s users will be &#8220;co-developers&#8221; and the newsletter will respond to not only institutional need but also to the needs of its community. One element of the environment out of which the new newsletter has arisen is the beginnings of a comprehensive branding effort at Indiana University . As an Indiana University unit, the museum wants to both contribute to the success of the university as a whole and to benefit from the institution&#8217;s overall success. Advancing, and aligning with, the university&#8217;s branding work is part of this. The new newsletter&#8217;s fonts are the university&#8217;s new fonts. Its colors are drawn from the university&#8217;s new palettes. The museum&#8217;s wordmark is our official instance from the university&#8217;s wordmark and signature system. As these things go, our timing was very lucky. When a new enterprise branding system rolls out, there are always plenty of units who have legacy graphics, templates, and content in place. The move to a unified brand system is always painful for such units, both in terms of work and sunk costs. For the museum, our bringing a newsletter into existence just after the release of the new brand system is an incredibly lucky break. A museum newsletter staple is acknowledging donors (financial, collections, and in-kind). Saying thanks in diverse ways is a crucial part of museum stewardship. Our new newsletter contributes to this work. (Thanks again MMWC donors!). It also includes a link to another new piece of MMWC infrastructure. This is what is called, in IU-speak, our &#8220;give now&#8221; button . This is a direct link to the Indiana University Foundation, where prospective donors can quickly and easily make financial contributions to advance the museum&#8217;s mission. (While you are thinking about it, why not give it a try and see for yourself how easy it is! If you need to find it, the give now button is also always accessible from the museum&#8217;s homepage .) The museum&#8217;s strategic agenda will require additional financial support and, for this reason, a growing portion of my time is being spent connecting with donors, prospective donors, and university (and foundation) administrators laying the groundwork for new development work. The newsletter and the give now button are both key elements for this effort. Developing a social media strategy is another related kind of infrastructure work. This is a rapidly changing sector, but we now have a working plan in place. The museum is connecting via a number of platforms. The distinctive ways that we intend to (try to) use each of them would make for a post of its own, but I can note here that the MMWC can be found on Facebook , on Twitter , on Google+ , on Pinterest , and on Flickr . If you are using one of these services, I hope that you will follow (like, etc.) the MMWC there. We are eager to keep up with you and to help you keep up with all that is happening at the museum and in the larger worlds in which the museum works. (The museum does not yet have a blog, but this space can serve that function for the time being.) As noted above, we are trying out Issuu for a fancy and social media-friendly presentation of the newsletter. (As Wikipedia describes it: Issuu is an &#8220;online service that allows for realistic and customizable viewing of digitally uploaded material, such as portfolios, books, magazine issues, newspapers, and other print media.)&#8221; As those consulting our newsletter there will discover, Issuu is presently very popular with American museums, who (like we are) use it to share their newsletters and magazines. &#8220;But these services come and go!&#8221; you say. &#8220;What about preservation for the future?&#8221; you rightly ask. Here is where our partnerships with the IU Bloomington Library are crucial. As noted above, the newsletter will be placed into the IUScholarWorks Repository . While it is not there yet (give us a bit of time to make sure that there are no bugs in the new newsletter), you can find some recent MMWC content there. As my example, I invite you to check out the small book that we recently published on the occasion of the Treasures of the Mathers Museum exhibition. (Kudos to its author, MMWC Curator Ellen Sieber.) We are presently digitizing the museum&#8217;s publications archive and making these older works accessible in IUScholarWorks. In this form, they have stable URI s and will be looked after digitally by the awesome folks at the library. I could keep going along these lines, but let me close with a behind-the-scenes example. This past week, Ellen Sieber finalized work on internal protocols and strategies for our enterprise use of Zotero , the award winning research tool for &#8220;collecting, organizing, citing, and sharing&#8221; research sources. We are already making great use of this tool as we pursue research and planning work together as a staff and community. Our student practicum students have been valued colleagues in getting this piece of our infrastructure up and running. In our strategic plan, we identify building a research collaboratory as a key goal. Our getting going with Zotero as an enterprise system is a good step forward on this goal. (Thanks Ellen!) As will be suggested by this partial accounting of our recent infrastructure building (/choosing) work, we are already on a bazaar-like path (after Eric Raymond&#8217;s contrastive image of the cathedral and the bazaar ), splicing together a range of basic off-the-rack tools and strategies (rather than waiting and building a large customized multipurpose tool and approach). This strategy is familiar to me from my work on Open Folklore . Please join us in this work. Share your good ideas and your experiences. Let us know what is working and what isn&#8217;t. Filed under: Arts Administration , Design , Digital Projects , DIY , IT (Information Technology) , Mathers Museum , Museum , Practical Information , Scholarly Communication , social media , Software 
